 
  
   
 
 
Maine State Legislature  
AUGUSTA, MAINE 04333-0002 NATHAN M. CARLOW  
STATE REPRESENTATIVE 
 
2 STATE HOUSE STATION 
AUGUSTA, MAINE 04333-0002  
(207) 287 -1440  
(207) 287 -1449 (FAX)  
 
NATHAN.CARLOW@LEGISLATURE.MAINE.GOV 
 
 
April 26, 2023 
 
 
Members 
Joint Standing Committee on Appropriations and Financial Affairs   
5 State House Station  
Augusta, Maine 04333-0100  RE: Testimony in Support of LD  1185 ( SP 481)  An Act to Authorize a General Fund Bond Issue 
to Recapitalize the School Revolving Renovation Fund  Dear Senator Rotundo, Representative Sachs, and Honorable Colleagues:    
I first want to commend my friend, Senator Ingwersen, for his leadership in introducing 
this legislation and I want to speak in strong support of this desperately needed bond measure.  
Our schools are the foundation upon which we build our future, and so vital it is to 
preserve and maintain them that the State Constitution has decreed their upkeep as one of our most consequential responsibilities.   But no school, however well-built or maintained, is immune 
to the passing of time, and as generations pass, the foundation for our tomorrow is buckling and cracking under today’s enormous financial pressures.  
 
The communities I represent are among the poorest and most rural in our State, but our 
school system, like many if not most, has beared the brunt of declining enrollment, and even 
though my constituents are living paycheck to paycheck, our property values, and therefore 
property taxes, continue to skyrocket.  
 
It's highway robbery, and this destructive confluence stemming from an out-of-date 
funding formula, has forced Maine schools to cut corners and find short-term, not long- term 
solutions to the increasingly complicated problems public schools are expected to correct.  
 
There’s simply not enough money to maintain our classrooms, and even if schools were 
to propose such an initiative, many districts would struggle to reconcile the requisite school tax increases in order to do it.   
 
REP CARLOW TESTIMONY CONTINUED 
PAGE 2  
What’s more, we find countless school facilities designed in different eras. If this bill 
passes, it could pr ovide much needed relief to these districts that try to upgrade and enhance 
features that makes our schools more safe and secure.  
 
We need State intervention, and this is the only bill this session that would provide 
targeted support to our school recapitalization projects, and for these reasons, I strongly support 
passage of this measure.  
 
Thank you for your consideration of this testimony, please let me know if I can provide 
you with additional information . 
 
Sincerely,  
 
Nathan Carlow State Representati ve 
 
   
 

