 
 
 
April 13, 2023  
Senator Nicole Grohoski , Chair  
Representative Joseph C. Perry, Sr., Chair  
Committee on Taxation  
100 State House Station  
Augusta, Maine 04333  
 
Re: Testimony  on LD 1276 , “An Act to Create and Sustain Jobs and Affordable Housing 
Through the Development of Cooperatives and Employee -Owned Businesses ” 
 
Senator Grohoski , Representative Perry , and members of the Taxation Committee:  
 
Founded  right here in Maine  twenty years ago , ReVision Energy is a local, employee owned , 
certified B Corp oratio n with over 385 employee s across our five branches in  New Englan d, with 
220 staff in Maine at our Montville and South Portland locations . Our mission is to lead our 
community in solving the environmental problems cause d by fossil fuels while alleviating social 
injustice to ensure  New England is a thriving place  where our children, grandchildren, and future 
generations can enjoy a clean environment and just society . We are a construction company 
who, in 2022 alone, insta lled 10,000 kilowatts of residential solar and nearly 24 megawatts of 
commercial solar across the region, eliminating over 950,000,000 pounds of future CO2 
emissions.  
 
The employee owner mindset has been present in our work since our founding in 20 03, and 
that’s why, after a rigor ous three -year exploration of various strate gies aligned with our mission , 
Revision formally adopted the ESOP model in 2017 . This decision has proved to be incredibly 
beneficial for our company  and we believe our entire communi ty reaps the long -lasting, profit -
building benefits.  Our founders felt this was the best strategy  to ensure our company’s long -term 
economic and environmental sustainability.  We want all Maine businesses to have the support 
and resources they need in makin g this decision, and for that reason, we are here today in 
support of LD 1276.  
 
According to the ESOP Association, an overwhelming majority  of companies that convert to an 
ESOP  model  report higher levels of employee motivation and productivity. This overwhelmingly 
positive effect on the company creates broad -based ownership among all employees and 
fosters an environment in which everyone understands his or her role in helping the comp any 
achieve its triple bottom line. Research has proven that employee ownership builds successful, 
competitive companies and creates equitable wealth for employees. It has been shown that 
ESOP companies pay better benefits, have twice the retirement income  for employees and pay 
higher wages than non -ESOP companies .  
 
Erik Mitchell, a solar design specialist from Brunswick who has been with ReVision Energy 
since 2008, said it best back in 2017: “You come to realize that it’s not just me, working for 
someone else to build their company —it’s all of us at ReVision Energy working together to build 
this company for us —which is a really powerful thing, and we are really proud of that.”  
 
We think  this bipartisan legislation brings forth a thoughtful approach  as we can all agree that 
supporting workers, spurring economic development, and creating more Maine jobs are 
priorities here in our state. We especially  support  the development of the Maine Employee 
Ownership Center , which  can not only grow ESOPs in the s tate to empower and elevate more 
of Maine’s workers , but it can  support our existing community of co -owner s, too.  
 
 
 
Thank you for your consideration of our perspective . We welcome further discussion, and we 
are available to address any questions you may hav e. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
 
Lindsay Bourgoine  
Director, Policy & Government Affairs  
ReVision Energy  
207.819.5663  
 
 
 
 

