 
MAINE STATE LEGISLATURE 
 
 
 
The following document is provided by the 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DIGITAL LIBRARY 
at the Maine State Law and Legislative Reference Library 
http://legislature.maine.gov/lawlib 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduced from electronic originals 
(may include minor formatting differences from printed original) 
 
 
Printed on recycled paper
131st MAINE LEGISLATURE
SECOND REGULAR SESSION-2024
Legislative Document No. 2231
S.P. 956 In Senate, February 27, 2024
Resolve, to Promote Access to Education and Workforce 
Development by Transferring Ownership of the Hutchinson Center 
Property in Belfast to the City of Belfast
(AFTER DEADLINE)
(EMERGENCY)
Approved for introduction by a majority of the Legislative Council pursuant to Joint Rule 
205.
Reference to the Committee on Education and Cultural Affairs suggested and ordered 
printed.
DAREK M. GRANT
Secretary of the Senate
Presented by Senator CURRY of Waldo.
Cosponsored by Representative DODGE of Belfast and
Senators: BEEBE-CENTER of Knox, DAUGHTRY of Cumberland, DUSON of Cumberland, 
GROHOSKI of Hancock, VITELLI of Sagadahoc, Representatives: ANKELES of Brunswick, 
WORTH of Ellsworth.

Page 1 - 131LR3046(01)
1Emergency preamble.  Whereas, acts and resolves of the Legislature do not 
2 become effective until 90 days after adjournment unless enacted as emergencies; and
3Whereas, the Hutchinson Center in Belfast was purpose-built to increase access to 
4 higher education and workforce development in midcoast communities; and
5Whereas, the vast majority of funds expended to build the Hutchinson Center came 
6 from donors that were local or had strong midcoast connections; and
7Whereas, the University of Maine System has closed the Hutchinson Center and has 
8 initiated a process of disposing of the property in a manner that fails to ensure that the 
9 facility is used to increase access to education and workforce development; and
10Whereas, officials of the City of Belfast have expressed a desire that the property 
11 transaction described in this legislation be executed as soon as possible to enable the 
12 redevelopment of the Hutchinson Center in a manner that maintains the original mission of 
13 the facility; and
14Whereas, in the judgment of the Legislature, these facts create an emergency within 
15 the meaning of the Constitution of Maine and require the following legislation as 
16 immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health and safety; now, 
17 therefore, be it
18Sec. 1.  University of Maine System directed to convey certain land and 
19property in Belfast.  Resolved:  That, notwithstanding any provision of law to the 
20 contrary, the University of Maine System shall convey without compensation, by quitclaim 
21 deed without covenant, to the City of Belfast in Waldo County the University of Maine 
22 System's interest in the parcel of land identified as 80 Belmont Avenue and depicted on the 
23 City of Belfast Tax Assessor's tax map 5 as Lot 29 and recorded in the Waldo County 
24 Registry of Deeds in Book 3100, Page 236 along with any buildings located on that 
25 property, including the building commonly known as the University of Maine Hutchinson 
26 Center.
27Sec. 2.  City of Belfast to ensure property is used to provide access to 
28education and workforce development.  Resolved:  That, after the transfer of the 
29 property to the City of Belfast under section 1, the City of Belfast shall ensure it is used to 
30 provide access to education and workforce development for a minimum of 5 years.
31Emergency clause.  In view of the emergency cited in the preamble, this legislation 
32 takes effect when approved.
33SUMMARY
34 This resolve directs the University of Maine System to convey to the City of Belfast 
35 the University of Maine System's interest in the land and any buildings, including the 
36 building commonly known as the University of Maine Hutchinson Center, located at 80 
37 Belmont Avenue in Belfast. After the transfer of the property, the City of Belfast must 
38 ensure it is used to provide access to education and workforce development for a minimum 
39 of 5 years.
34
35
36
37
38
39
