 
MAINE STATE LEGISLATURE 
 
 
 
The following document is provided by the 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DIGITAL LIBRARY 
at the Maine State Law and Legislative Reference Library 
http://legislature.maine.gov/lawlib 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduced from scanned originals with text recognition applied 
(searchable text may contain some errors and/or omissions) 
 
 
1 L.D. 1464
2 Date:^//3/^( (Filing No. S-(;
^5 "" ' MAJORITY
3 LABOR AND HOUSING
4 Reproduced and distributed under the direction of the Secretary of the Senate.
5 STATE OF MAINE
6 SENATE
7 131ST LEGISLATURE
8 SECOND REGULAR SESSION
9 COMMITTEE AMENDMENT " ^ " to S.P. 583, L.D. 1464, "An Act to Remove the
10 Waiting Period for Benefits Under Mame's Unemployment Insurance System"
11 Amend the bill by incorporating the attached fiscal note.
12 SUMMARY
13 This amendment, which is the majority report of the committee, incorporates a fiscal
14 note.
Page 1 - 131LR1109(02)
COMMITTEE AMENDMENT
Approved: 04/01/24 ^%:-?c*-
131st MAINE LEGISLATURE
LD 1464 LR 1109(02)
An Act to Remove the Waiting Period for Benefits Under Maine's Unemployment Insurance System
Fiscal Note for Bill as Amended by Committee Amendment '^"/
Committee: Labor and Housing
Fiscal Note Required: Yes
Fiscal Note
Undetermined current biennium cost increase - All Funds
Undetermined future biennium revenue increase - Unemployment Compensation Trust Fund
Fiscal Detail and Notes
Eliminating the .one week waiting period for workers in the State who are applying for unemployment benefits will
increase costs to the Unemployment Compensation Trust Fund beginning in fiscal year 2024-25 due to an increase
benefit payments. The Department of Labor has indicated that the cost of this legislation could range from
approximately $7.5 million during a period of very low unemployment to approximately $42.0 million during a period
of very high unemployment.
This expansion of benefits paid will decrease the amount of funds in the tmst fund and may potentially increase the
average benefit cost rate, both of which could reduce the reserve multiple which is used to determine the tmst fund
solvency and the contribution rate schedule for the upcoming year. If the expansion of benefits provided in the bill
results in the reserve multiple decreasing below the range of the current contribution schedule (which is at Schedule A
for 2024) the schedule for the upcoming year would change, resulting in an increase in unemployment tax rates for
employers. The impact to all employers and the timing of the impact cannot be determined at this time and will
depend on the level of benefits paid, contributions received and the balance of the tmst fund when the contribution
schedule is calculated.
The State and other direct reimbursement employers will be required to repay the Unemployment Compensation Trust
Fund for additional benefit payments made as a result of this legislation beginning with the current biennium.
LR1109(02) - Fiscal Note - Page 1 of 1
