 
MAINE STATE LEGISLATURE 
 
 
 
The following document is provided by the 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DIGITAL LIBRARY 
at the Maine State Law and Legislative Reference Library 
http://legislature.maine.gov/lawlib 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduced from electronic originals 
(may include minor formatting differences from printed original) 
 
 
Printed on recycled paper
131st MAINE LEGISLATURE
SECOND REGULAR SESSION-2024
Legislative Document No. 2100
S.P. 893 In Senate, January 3, 2024
An Act to Require the Reporting of Alpha-gal Syndrome to the 
Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention
(EMERGENCY)
Approved for introduction by a majority of the Legislative Council pursuant to Joint Rule 
203.
Reference to the Committee on Health and Human Services suggested and ordered printed.
DAREK M. GRANT
Secretary of the Senate
Presented by Senator LIBBY of Cumberland.
Cosponsored by Senators: BALDACCI of Penobscot, President JACKSON of Aroostook, 
Representative: Speaker TALBOT ROSS of Portland.

Page 1 - 131LR2625(01)
1Emergency preamble.  Whereas, acts and resolves of the Legislature do not 
2 become effective until 90 days after adjournment unless enacted as emergencies; and
3Whereas, this Act requires the Department of Health and Human Services to add 
4 alpha-gal syndrome, a potentially life-threatening red meat allergy caused by a tick bite, to 
5 the list of conditions that must be reported to the Maine Center for Disease Control and 
6 Prevention; and
7Whereas, this State has no requirement for reporting alpha-gal syndrome to the Maine 
8 Center for Disease Control and Prevention, limiting that agency's ability to track and 
9 respond to occurrences of alpha-gal syndrome; and
10Whereas, rapid availability of data and increased awareness, including physician 
11 awareness, of the condition could benefit the public health and safety of the people of the 
12 State; and
13Whereas, this legislation should take effect as soon as possible for the benefit of 
14 public health; and
15Whereas, in the judgment of the Legislature, these facts create an emergency within 
16 the meaning of the Constitution of Maine and require the following legislation as 
17 immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health and safety; now, 
18 therefore,
19Be it enacted by the People of the State of Maine as follows:
20Sec. 1.  22 MRSA ยง802, sub-ยง1-A is enacted to read:
211-A.  Designation of alpha-gal syndrome as notifiable disease or condition.  The 
22 department shall designate alpha-gal syndrome, also known as alpha-gal allergy or red meat 
23 allergy, as a notifiable disease or condition and require the reporting of occurrences and 
24 suspected occurrences of alpha-gal syndrome to the Maine Center for Disease Control and 
25 Prevention in the manner described by the department rules governing notifiable diseases 
26 and conditions.
27 For the purposes of this subsection, "alpha-gal syndrome" means a potentially life-
28 threatening tick-borne illness characterized as an allergy to a sugar molecule called alpha-
29 gal found in most mammals.
30Emergency clause.  In view of the emergency cited in the preamble, this legislation 
31 takes effect when approved.
32SUMMARY
33 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to add alpha-gal 
34 syndrome, a potentially life-threatening red meat allergy caused by a tick bite, to the list of 
35 conditions that must be reported to the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention 
36 by health care providers and other persons as described in the department rules governing 
37 notifiable diseases and conditions.
33
34
35
36
37
