 
MAINE STATE LEGISLATURE  
 
 
 
The following document is provided by the 
LAW AND LEGISLATIVE DIGITAL LIBRARY  
at the Maine State Law and Legislative Reference Library 
http://legislature.m aine.gov/lawlib 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduced from electronic originals 
(may include minor formatting diffe rences from printed original) 
 
 
Printed on recycled paper131st MAINE LEGISLATURE
SECOND REGULAR SESSION-2024
Legislative Document No. 2094
S.P. 887 In Senate, January 3, 2024
Resolve, to Require the Establishment of a Stakeholder Group to 
Examine and Improve the Recruitment, Retention and Wellness of 
Law Enforcement Officers
Approved for introduction by a majority of the Legislative Council pursuant to Joint Rule 
203.
Reference to the Committee on Criminal Justice and Public Safety suggested and ordered 
printed.
DAREK M. GRANT
Secretary of the Senate
Presented by President JACKSON of Aroostook.
Cosponsored by Representative DODGE of Belfast and
Senators: BEEBE-CENTER of Knox, CURRY of Waldo, FARRIN of Somerset, 
HARRINGTON of York, HICKMAN of Kennebec, ROTUNDO of Androscoggin.

Page 1 - 131LR2906(01)1Sec. 1.  Formation of stakeholder group; study.  Resolved:  That the 
2 Department of Public Safety shall convene a stakeholder group composed of members as 
3 required by section 2 to study long-term solutions to improve the recruitment, retention and 
4 wellness of law enforcement officers in the State.  The study must include, but is not limited 
5 to:
6 1.  An analysis of how to incentivize and encourage the recruitment of law enforcement 
7 officers and how funding could be provided to address vacant law enforcement positions;
8 2.  An analysis of how to incentivize and encourage the retention of law enforcement 
9 officers and how funding could be provided to support this goal;
10 3.  An analysis of how to incentivize and encourage mental and physical wellness 
11 programs for law enforcement officers and how funding could be provided to support this 
12 goal;
13 4.  An analysis of how to develop and support law enforcement entities in rural 
14 communities and how funding could be provided to support community peace and crime 
15 deterrence;
16 5.  An analysis of the current educational, social service, public health, criminal justice, 
17 drug enforcement and economic needs of communities and law enforcement entities, 
18 opportunities to address those needs and how funding could be provided to support the 
19 peacekeeping efforts of law enforcement entities;
20 6.  An analysis of media coverage in the State, the scope of which is to be determined 
21 by the stakeholder group, and the impact of media on public perception of law enforcement 
22 officers; and
23 7.  An analysis of current community policing, social services and crime prevention 
24 programs throughout the State, and recommendations for future programs, and how 
25 funding could be provided to support the peacekeeping efforts of law enforcement entities.
26Sec. 2.  Stakeholder group membership.  Resolved:  That the stakeholder group 
27 under section 1 consists of 10 members as follows:
28 1.  The Commissioner of Public Safety or the commissioner's designee; and
29 2.  Nine members appointed by the Governor who possess expertise in the subject 
30 matter of the study as follows:
31 A.  An individual representing the Maine Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police;
32 B.  An individual representing the Maine Association of Police;
33 C. An individual representing a statewide association that represents retired law 
34 enforcement officers;
35 D.  An individual representing a statewide association advocating for state troopers in 
36 the State;
37 E.  An individual representing the Maine State Law Enforcement Association;
38 F.  An individual representing the Maine Law Enforcement Coalition;
39 G.  An individual representing the Maine Criminal Justice Academy;
40 H.  An individual representing a statewide mental health organization; and
Page 2 - 131LR2906(01)1 I.  An individual representing a statewide private law enforcement organization.
2 The Department of Public Safety shall report to the joint standing committee of the 
3 Legislature having jurisdiction over judiciary matters no later than January 2, 2025 with 
4 findings and recommendations, including suggested legislation.  The joint standing 
5 committee may report out a bill related to the report to the 132nd Legislature in 2025.
6SUMMARY
7 This resolve requires the Department of Public Safety to convene a stakeholder group 
8 composed of individuals representing law enforcement officers, retired law enforcement 
9 officers, criminal justice educators and administrators, private security firms and mental 
10 health professionals to examine and propose long-term solutions to improve the 
11 recruitment, retention and wellness of law enforcement officers.7
8
9
10
11
