	
	
   May 10, 2023   Committee on Energy, Utilities and Technology 100 State House Station Augusta, ME 04333   Chairman Lawrence, Chairman Zeigler, and honorable members of the Energy, Utilities, and Technology Committee,   Thank you for the opportunity to testify in support of LD 327, An Act to Provide Maine Ratepayers with Equitable Access to Interconnection of Distributed Energy Resources.   I speak to you today as the Vice President of Workforce Development and Interconnection Policy for ReVision Energy, a 400-person, employee-owned B Corp headquartered in Maine and guided by a mission of building our just and equitable electric future. ReVision works towards this mission through the design, installation, and service of solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, electrical storage systems, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, and heat pumps in Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts. My role is to support our efforts at addressing two of the most critical constraints for our business related to the deployment of solar energy systems: workforce development and utility interconnection.  We were strong proponents of LD 1100, An Act to Support the Continued Access to Solar Energy and Battery Storage by Maine Homes and Businesses, which was passed by the 130th legislature in 2021. LD 1100 was a response to significant barriers faced by ReVision Energy and other solar companies in Maine with interconnecting fast track solar projects for utility customers. We were pleased with the legislature’s leadership in passing LD 1100 to modernize the state’s interconnection rules to reflect the important lessons learned in other states that had experienced significant growth of interconnected solar facilities. We recognized in 2021 that – left unaddressed – issues that were being experienced by customers seeking to interconnect facilities of several hundred kilowatts would soon affect customers seeking to install facilities of just a few kilowatts.   Interconnection issues are increasing in frequency and complexity  In the time since LD 1100 was enacted, we have seen our concern about the expansion of interconnection challenges come to fruition. Customers seeking to interconnect even the smallest of residential facilities have been told by Versant Power that the grid is insufficient – even on circuits where no large, megawatt-scale facilities are interconnected. Customers who have sought resolution through the Maine Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) have found an inability to get the relief afforded them under the state’s interconnection rules or have found the cost of representation by an individual with sufficient technical expertise to assist with their effort prohibitive.   This has put companies such as ours in the position of needing to represent customers at MPUC or risk the precedent that customers are denied the rights afforded them under the state’s interconnection rules. Without intervention, these issues will continue to grow and affect wider swaths of the state. Additionally, these interconnection issues need to be addressed to ensure Maine can fulfill the state’s climate plan.  
The complexity of interconnect will continue to grow with the rapid increase in the use of energy storage systems (batteries) and of vehicle-to-grid devices that allow homes and businesses to utilize an electric vehicle to reduce peak load for a customer or for the grid requires Maine to be proactive in its regulatory environment. As has been experienced over the past 3-4 years, a reliance on antiquated interconnection rules provides unnecessary obstruction to Maine utility customers seeking to invest in distributed energy resources.   Results of interconnection evaluation from LD 1100    We are extremely appreciative of the technical challenges interconnection poses to utilities and their regulators. We are also supportive of and outspoken proponents for protecting the safety and reliability of Maine’s electrical grid. With these priorities, we were pleased to see the Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC) awarded the contract resulting from LD 1100 to evaluate Maine’s interconnection rules. IREC is the foremost authority in the U.S. related to the interconnection of renewable energy facilities and periodically publishes its Model Interconnection Procedures. Maine’s small generator interconnection procedures (SGIPs), as detailed in MPUC Chapter 324, were originally based on the 2005 edition of IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures. In the thirteen years since Maine adopted Chapter 324, IREC has updated its procedures three times, including its most recent publication in 2019. During that same period, Maine has made minor changes to its SGIPs.  IREC’s SGIPs are aligned with those of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  As a result of LD 1100, IREC authored a report for MPUC entitled Interconnection Standards, Practices, and Procedures to Support Access to Solar Energy and Battery Storage for Maine Homes and Businesses. This report provided an evaluation of Maine’s interconnection rules and made recommendations on how to best modernize them in a manner consistent with national best practices as represented by the improvements to IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures between 2005 until 2019. The report also highlights model interconnection procedures for batteries, or energy storage systems, as detailed in the Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar-Plus-Storage. This report is also known as the BATRIES report, as it was developed under the Building a Technically Reliable Interconnection Evolution for Storage (BATRIES) project team. This team included IREC, the Electric Power Research Institute, New Hampshire Electric Co-op, Solar Energy Industries Association, California Solar and Storage Association, and PacifiCorp.   In its report, IREC concluded the following: • Improvements in Maine’s dispute resolution procedures for customers who are experiencing interconnection issues “may need improvement to efficiently and fairly resolve disputes.” One key recommendation by IREC for improving the process is the creation of an Ombudsperson position. • “Maine’s Procedures are not prepared to accommodate the unique features and capabilities of energy storage systems.” • The technical screening criteria for small projects “results in excessive screen failure without safety and reliability benefits.” • Interconnection of small projects could be streamlined by including a supplemental review process that has been outlined in IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures since 2013.  • Maine would benefit from increased utility transparency when the utility concludes that a proposed project has failed a conservative technical screen. 
• The interconnection rules could be strengthened by further clarifying when larger interconnection facilities can reserve capacity of the distribution system during the development process. In addition, IREC’s report highlighted additional technical requirements being implemented by Versant Power that were inconsistent with utility best practices and may unnecessarily increase interconnection costs.  The report also provided recommendations on how MPUC could implement the provision of LD 1100 that prohibits certain residential and nonresidential customers – namely those who install solar to offset on-site electrical consumption – from paying for distribution upgrades without the cost of those upgrades being shouldered by ratepayers.  I have attached the IREC report and the BATRIES reports referenced by IREC with our digital filing for the committee’s reference.  We are very appreciative of the work done by Senator Grohoski to bring light to these issues and to offer practical and tangible solutions that directly address several of the issues currently facing Maine homes and businesses seeking to interconnect solar and batteries and several issues for which Maine will see benefit in addressing proactively rather than reactively.   Interconnection Ombudsperson  As highlighted by IREC and experienced by Maine’s interconnection customers, all related parties would benefit from a position within MPUC that has specific technical expertise related to interconnection issues. Currently, Maine customers are largely dependent upon local solar construction companies to represent them in technical proceedings at MPUC. This type of representation is costly and unsustainable, especially for small projects where the true costs to participate successfully in MPUC’s dispute resolution process can be nearly as much as it costs to construct the facility.   Funding an interconnection ombudsperson through fees assessed on all interconnection customers subject to Maine’s SGIPs will provide benefit for MPUC, the utilities, interconnection customers, and solar construction companies by reducing the number and complexity of conflicts for all parties.   While we appreciate MPUC’s attempts to support interconnection customers through the dispute resolution process, it has been clear that additional and nuanced expertise is needed for interconnection customers to receive the relief outlined in LD 1100.  We are appreciative of the inclusion of provisions in LD 327 that establish an interconnection ombudsperson and stipulate the funding of that position primarily through interconnection fees and optionally through contributions from public sources, such as federal grants, and private sources. With significant federal investments in expanding the use of renewable energy, this would position Maine to potentially leverage those funds to defer interconnection costs and further decrease barriers to renewable energy development in Maine.  Battery interconnection  As highlighted by IREC, Maine’s current SGIPs provide insufficient guidance for the interconnection of batteries. Customers are already experiencing increased barriers to interconnection and would benefit – as would utilities – from having clear requirements for systems that use batteries to avoid exporting 
power to the grid. The provisions in Maine’s SGIPs related to non-exporting facilities, also known as Level 3 facilities, date back to the original Chapter 324 rules adopted in 2009, which are in turn based on model SGIPs from 2005. Much has changed with regards to battery storage in the nearly two decades since those procedures were established.  We are seeing increasing adoption of grid-interconnected batteries and an increasing opportunity for them related to the value they can provide for customers and for all ratepayers. The Distributed Generation Stakeholder Group, which was formed in response to LD 936, issued a final report that concluded that “given proper dispatch incentives, battery storage can be deployed in conjunction with solar PV at incremental costs that are significantly less than incremental benefits.”   As has been experience with the interconnection of solar photovoltaic systems, deployment of these technologies will be highly dependent upon the forethought of adopting interconnection procedures that are aligned with industry best practices, in this case the aforementioned BATRIES report.   ReVision Energy is appreciative of the clarification LD 327 makes in state law to specify the need for MPUC to adopt rules that are inclusive of energy storage systems.  Distribution cost waiver  In late 2022, MPUC opened a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) related to proposed changes to Maine’s SGIPs that included provisions related to the distribution cost waiver required by LD 1100. In its NOI, MPUC indicated that it was considering the size of a facility as the criteria for eligibility for the cost waiver. In LD 1100, it appears that the legislature intended that the cost waiver exclusively serve residential and nonresidential customers that are “on-site solar energy generators.” Our interpretation of this provision in LD 1100 is consistent with that of LD 327; namely that the cost waiver is intended for customers who are seeking to use solar energy to offset energy consumed at the same site.   This delineation is important, as it recognizes that utility customers are subject to the grid infrastructure serving them – something over which they have little to no influence. The distribution cost waiver – something well outlined in IREC’s report for MPUC – serves to buffer individual interconnection customers from excessive utility upgrade costs by spreading those coasts across all interconnection customers.   There have been a number of issues since the October 2022 deadline for MPUC to adopt a method for implementing the distribution cost waiver that would have been more readily resolved through the methods recommended by IREC. We appreciate the language in LD 327 that clarifies the intent of this provision in LD 1100 and provides explicit guidance to MPUC related to language that may have been less clear in the original legislation.  Monitoring provisions   While unrelated to the interconnection provisions of LD 1100 and the report issued by IREC, the clarification of MPUC’s responsibilities related to Monitoring as outlined in Section 3 of LD 327 and the report related to the implementation of the C&I tariff rate are critical provisions of this legislation.  ReVision Energy has significant concern with the manner in which net energy billing (NEB) costs have been presented to the legislature and the public. It appears that lost utility revenue is being equated with ratepayer costs. This has resulted in the legislature and the public attempting to evaluate the merits of energy policy with incomplete information. In responsibly evaluating the cost effectiveness of Maine’s NEB policy, it is critical that – through this committee – the legislature is provided with accurate 
data related to the real costs to ratepayers of the program and the real benefits. Thus far, it appears the legislature and the public is receiving neither.  Maine state law requires MPUC to monitor “the likely relative costs and benefits for ratepayers from solar energy development” (my emphasis). To date, the only analysis that we have seen that contemplates the costs and benefits of Maine’s net energy billing program is a 2021 report from Daymark Energy Advisors. The Daymark study provides a far different conclusion about the net costs and benefits of solar development in Maine. The managing consultant on this study was Carrie Gilbert, Governor Mills’ nominee to replace Randall Davis at MPUC.   In adopting the Maine Solar Energy Act a decade ago, the legislature identified the importance of having MPUC provide complete numbers to policymakers to inform decisions related to state energy policy. ReVision Energy supports the language in Section 3 and Section 4 of LD 327 that explicitly details which benefits of solar energy development need to be captured to inform responsible political debate and the requirement that MPUC provide this reporting annually. The benefits are consistent with those evaluated by Daymark and those evaluated by the Distributed Generation Stakeholder Group when considering a successor for Maine’s current NEB program.  Report on the C&I Tariff  In addition to providing a more comprehensive analysis of the costs and benefits of NEB, LD 327 also requires MPUC to perform a thorough evaluation of the manner in which previous legislation has been implemented. Specifically, LD 327 requires a thorough evaluation of the way MPUC opted to implement the commercial and industrial tariff for NEB facilities.   As this committee is aware, there have been concerns about the costs of NEB resulting from the passage of LD 1711 in 2019. Such concerns led to the protraction of Maine’s NEB program by reducing the eligible facility size and decoupling the C&I tariff from retail electricity rates.  The original purpose of the C&I tariff was to increase the accessibility of NEB to medium-sized businesses subject to demand charges. The solution was to provide those customers with a compensation mechanism at a rate less than that received through NEB by small business customers. It is concerning that a program that was explicitly designed to maximize benefits for all ratepayers and established an NEB rate that is less than the standard NEB credit would be deemed as much more costly to ratepayers. Yet, the Daymark study concluded just that. In its report, Daymark concludes, “The kWh program provides net benefits, while the Tariff Rate program is more costly to non-participating customers. This is due to the structural differences between the two programs.”  The structural difference is that the kWh program is settled as load reduction (much like energy efficiency) and the tariff program is settled as wholesale generation. This is a striking conclusion and one that – to our knowledge – has not been fully evaluated by either the legislature nor MPUC. LD 327 requires MPUC to perform that evaluation. We are confident that the evaluation will identify key steps that can be taken to implement the C&I tariff in a manner that extracts greater value for ratepayers.   Conclusion  Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on this important legislation. While technical and nuanced in scope, LD 327 is an example of solid legislation that serves to clarify key policy priorities in a manner that allocates costs where they are most appropriate, strengthens policymaking by providing complete information to legislators for consideration in their decision-making process, and seeks to 
address long-term liability to ratepayers by evaluating whether directives from the legislature have been implemented to the greatest public benefit.  I appreciate your consideration of this testimony and will plan to attend the work session on this bill to assist the committee in any manner that I can.   Sincerely,      Vaughan Woodruff VP of Workforce Development and Interconnection Policy 
Interconnection Standards, Practices,
and Procedures to Support Access to
Solar Energy and Battery Storage for
Maine Homes and Businesses
FEBRUARY 2022Report Prepared for the Maine Public Utilities Commission
Laura D. Beaton , Partner, Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger LLP
Radina Valova, Regulatory Vice President, IREC
Sky C. Stanfield , Partner, Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger LLP
Brian Lydic, Chief Regulatory Engineer, IREC 
Matthew McKerley, Attorney, Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger LLP
Midhat Mafazy , Regulatory Program Engineer, IREC
Mari Hernandez , Regulatory Program Assistant Director, IREC
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
2  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
 
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................................... 4  
A. SUMMARY OF ISSUES ......................................................................................................... 5 
B. SCOPE OF WORK  ................................................................................................................... 7 
C. IREC’S APPROACH  ............................................................................................................... 8  
II. ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..................................................................................... 10 
A. PRIORITY CONSIDERATIONS TO ENSURE EFFICIENT INTERCONNECTION OF 
SOLAR AND STORAGE PROJECTS SERVING ON -SITE LOAD......................................... 10 
1. Issue: Review requirements that on -site solar and storage projects serving 
customer load must pay for distribution upgrades in some  circumstances, in light 
of direction in L.D. 1100.. .......................................................................................................... 10 
2. Issue: The definition of “Aggregated Generation” leaves gaps in how projects 
will be studied and upgrade costs allocated. .................................................................... 19 
3. Issue: The current manner in which “automatic sectionalizing devices” are 
determined for Screen 7(A) (the “15% of peak load” or “penetration” screen) results 
in excessive screen failure without safety and reliability benefits.  ............................. 25 
4. Issue: Screen 7(E) (the “shared secondary” screen) relies on an assumption of 
transformer size that may be insufficiently conservative in some cases and overly 
conservative in others. ............................................................................................................ 33 
5. Issue: Level 2 eligibility is fixed at 2 MW instead of relative to the likely 
capacity of different feeder types.  ....................................................................................... 36 
6. Issue: Maine’s procedures lack a well-defined “Supplemental Review” process 
that ensures that utilities offer it to applicants, which could streamline  
interconnection of low risk Level 2 DERs. ......................................................................... 39 
7. Issue:  Utility technical requirements for interconnection may not reflect best  
practices and thus may unnecessarily increase DER interconnection costs.. ......... 47 
8. Issue: Information provided on interconnection screen  failures may be 
insufficient to inform customers about next steps.  ......................................................... 54  
9. Issue: Maine’s Procedures are not prepared to accommodate t he unique 
features and capabilities of energy storage systems.  .................................................... 59  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
3  
10. Issue: Construction of interconnection upgrades may not be occurring in a 
timely manner, resulting in interconnection delays. ....................................................... 63 
11. Issue: Dispute resolution procedures may need improvement to efficiently and 
fairly resolve disputes.  ............................................................................................................ 66 
B. ADDITIONAL ISSUES THAT IMPACT THE INTERCONNECTION PROCESS FOR SMALL 
PROJECTS 
1. Issue: A lack of transparency regarding distribution upgrade costs creates 
uncertainty and mistrust. ........................................................................................................ 72  
2. Issue: Greater reporting of interconnection queue data may improve 
expectations about the interconnection process and provide the Commission with 
visibility into how well it is functioning. .............................................................................. 74  
3. Issue: Integrated distribution planning may offer a way to more efficiently 
upgrade the grid and allocate costs amongst beneficiaries. ........................................77 
4. Issue: Reliance on outdated versions of IEEE 1547 limit s the ability of DERs to 
provide needed grid services.  .............................................................................................. 80 
III. CONCLUSION ............................................................................................................................ 83 
 
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
4  
 
I. INTRODUCTION  
As distributed energy resources (“DER”) continue to decline in cost and the 
awareness of the need to act to minimize climate change  increases, the interest in 
renewable energy is growing nationwide. Maine has likewise experienced this trend as 
customer demand for access to clean, renewable power, like solar, has increased, along with applications to interconnect these resources to the grid. But  with such growth in 
demand can come growing pains as utilities strive to meet their obligations to interconnect DER while balancing their obligations to maintain a safe and reliable grid that often contains aging infrastructure.  
 Recognizing a need to im prove the process for interconnection of solar and storage 
projects that serve a customer’s own  on-site load, the Maine Legislature recently passed 
“An Act To Support the Continued Access to Solar Energy and Battery Storage by Maine Homes and Businesses,” or “L.D. 1100,”
1 which is intended to ensure that the state’s 
interconnection rules reflect national best practices and facilitates the interconnection of renewable generation. Specifically, the legislation directed the Maine Public Utilities Commission ( the “Commission”)  to consider improvements to Maine’s Interconnection 
Procedures (“Procedures”)  to ensure solar and storage projects that  serve a customer’s 
own electricity needs are interconnected efficiently and without bearing costs for distribution grid upgrades. The Legislature also directed the Commission to ensure a transparent screening process for these projects and to provide an efficient and effective dispute resolution process. 
 In pursuit of this legislative mandate, the Commission retained the  Interstate 
Renewable Energy Council, Inc. (“IREC”) to evaluate Maine’s Procedures and practices and to recommend improvements. IREC is a 501(c)(3) non -partisan, non -profit organization 
working nationally to build the foundation for rapid adoption of clean energy and energy 
 
1 L.D. 1100 was approved by the Governor on June 17, 2021. P.L. 2021, ch. 264. Section 1 of Chapter 264 is 
codified as 35 -A M.R.S. § 3474(3).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
5  
efficiency to benefit people, the economy, and our planet. In service of this mission, IREC 
advances scalable  solutions to integrate DER, e.g., renewable energy, energy storage, 
electric vehicles, and smart inverters, onto the grid safely, reliably, and affordably. The 
scope of our work includes developing and advancing regulatory policy innovations; generating a nd promoting national model rules, standards, and best practices; and 
updating interconnection processes to facilitate deployment of DERs and remove constraints to their integration on the grid. To prepare this report, IREC assembled a team 
of its regulatory policy experts and engineers to evaluate Maine’s Procedures, as described further in Section I.C , below. 
 This report provides a substantial suite of recommendations for the Commission to 
consider, all of which would further the goals outlined in L.D. 1100. We have categorized the recommendations as  priority and additional recommendations, and within each 
category, we have presented the recommendations in general order of priority.  
 A. SUMMARY OF ISSUES 
IREC has identified the following issues in Maine’s Interconnection Procedures and 
their implementation, which may impact efficient interconnection of projects serving a customer’s own load:  
 
Priority Issues 
 1. Review requirements that on -site solar and storage projects serving 
customer load must pay for distribution upgrades in some circumstances in light of direction  in L.D. 1100 . 
 2. The definition of “Aggregated Generation” leaves gaps in how projects will be studied and upgrade costs allocated. 
 3. The current manner in which “automatic sectionalizing devices” are defined  in Screen 7(A) results in excessive screen failure without safety 
and reliability benefits.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
6  
 4. Screen 7(E) relies on an assumption of transformer size that may be 
insufficiently conservative in some cases and overly conservative in 
others.  
 5. Level 2 eligibility is fixed at 2 MW instead of relative to the likely capacity of different feeder types.  
 6. Maine’s P rocedures lack a well-defined “Supplemental Review” process 
that util ities must offer to applicants. 
 7. The utilities’ technical requirements for interconnection may not reflect 
best practices and thus may unnecessarily increase interconnection costs. 
 8. Information provided on interconnection screen failures may be insuf ficient to inform customers about next steps.  
 9. Maine’s Procedures are not prepared to accommodate the unique features and capabilities of energy storage systems.  
 10. Construction of interconnection upgrades may not be occurring in a timely manner, resu lting in delays. 
 11. Dispute resolution procedures may need improvement to efficiently and fairly resolve disputes.  
Additional Issues 
 1. A lack of transparency regarding distribution upgrade costs creates uncertainty and mistrust. 
 2. Greater reporting of interconnection queue data may improve expectations about the interconnection process and provide the Commission with visibility into how well it is functioning.  
 3. Integrated distribution planning may offer a way to more efficiently upgrade the grid and allocate costs amongst beneficiaries. 
 4. Reliance on outdated versions of IEEE 1547 limit the ability of DERs to provide needed grid services.  
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
7  
B. SCOPE OF WORK  
Pursuant to the requirements of L.D. 1100 , the Commission requested a report to  
“evaluate near -term reforms to the State’s interconnection -related standards, practices 
and procedures, including those contained in the Commission’s existing interconnection 
rule (Chapter 324) and related materials, for the interconnection of renewable capacity resources as defined in the Maine Revised Statutes, Title 35-A, section 3210 -C, subsection 
1, paragraph E using solar power, with a particular focus on on -site and customer-sited 
facilities.”
2  
 This report will address the following five topics, with a focus on customer-sited DER 
systems designed to offset customer load:
3  
 
1. An in-depth review of Maine’s existing interconnection rules, practices and procedures for customer-sited solar and battery facilities. 
2. An in-depth assessment of how existing rules, practices and procedures may present barriers or challenges to access to such facilities by Maine homes and businesses. 
3. Recommendations as to how existing rules and related processes should be modified to remove or mitigate such barriers and challenges to facilitate access. 
4. Where possible, identification or discussion  of the costs, if any, of the items 
identified in these recommendations;
4 and 
5. Alternatives for recovery of any such costs, including how these costs are recovered in other jurisdictions. 
 
2 ME Pub. Util. Comm., RFP # 202107101, Consulting Services to Examine Interconnection Standards, 
Practices and Procedures to Support Access to Solar Energy and Battery Storage for Maine Homes and 
Businesses  (“RFP”) , p. 5 (May 4, 2021). 
3 Id. at p. 8. 
4 As IREC discussed  in conversations with Commission staff, this report does not contain a full economic 
analysis of potential costs to the Commission, utilities, or customers  of these recommendations. However, 
the report identifies where cost considerations may arise. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
8  
Following publication of this report , the “Commission will conduct a formal regulatory 
proceeding to consider the matters that will be the subject of the consultant’s 
examination,” and the report will be filed in the proceeding.5 
 
C. IREC’S APPROA CH 
To conduct the required analysis and prepare the report, IREC assembled a team 
of interconnection law and policy experts and interconnection engineers. IREC ’s team  
undertook the following in preparing this report : (1) consulted extensively with Commission 
staff for direction on the scope of the report; (2) reviewed Maine’s existing interconnection 
procedures and practices, as well as a review of relevant Commission dockets and filings; 
(3) interviewed stakeholders, including Maine’s investor-owned utilities and DER 
developers engaged in customer-sited DER development and  interconnection; (4 ) 
gathered data from  utilities regarding interconnection timelines, queues, costs, and other 
issues; ( 5) research ed and conducted comparative analyses of other jurisdictions’ 
interconnection rules and practices on the covered issues; and ( 6) evaluated of the latest 
applicable technical standards, including but not limited to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’ (“IEEE” ) 1547 -2018 standard. 
 Pursuant to L.D. 1100, this report is intended to address the interconnection process 
for “residential and nonresidential customers … install[ing] on -site solar energy generation 
and battery storage systems to offset [the] customer’s electrical consumption” (referred to in this report as “customer-sited” projects).
6 Conversations with Commission staff indicate 
that these customer -sited projects are generally smaller DER projects proposed under 
Level 1 or Level 2 of Maine’s Procedures. However, we note that the definition included by the Legislature in L.D. 1100 has the potential to include larger projects, for example, an on -
site solar system intended to serve a large warehouse, manufacturing facility, or “big box” store. 
 
 
5 RFP at p. 8.  
6 2021 ME Legis. Serv. Ch. 264 (S.P. 361  – L.D. 1100) (“L.D. 1100”) , § 2(1). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
9  
The recommendations in this report are generally presented in order of priority, to 
enable the C ommission and stakeholders to better determine which interconnection 
reforms to prioritize during the regulatory process. The report begins with high -priority 
items intended to enable more efficient interconnection of customer-sited DER projects 
(Section II.A), and moves on to recommendations that, while also crucial to effective 
interconnection, could be implemented after the Commission addresses the h igher -priority 
items (Section II.B).  IREC determined the order of priority through our examination of 
Maine’s existing Procedures and practices, interviews with utilities and DER developers 
that helped to identify challenges, relevant data from information request responses, and IREC’s experience with interconnection reform in other jurisdictions. We note that there 
may be additional changes to Maine’s P rocedures that would further align with national 
best practices and improve the process over the long -term  (particularly with respect to the 
process for larger front -of-the-meter projects), but the focus of this report is on resolving 
issues faced by smaller projects and most clearly identified through our investigation of 
the state of interconnection in Maine. 
 Each issue identified below is comprised of four parts: (1) a review of Maine’s current 
Procedures and practices on the issue, (2) a description of why the current rule or practice 
needs improvement, (3) an overview of how other jurisdictions are addressing the issue, (4) and targeted recommendations for improvement.  
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
10  
II. ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  
A. PRIORITY CONSIDERATIONS  TO ENSURE EFFICIENCT 
INTERCONNECTION OF SOLAR AND STORAGE PROJECTS  SERVING 
ON-SITE LOAD  
1. Issue : Review requirements that on -site solar and storage projects 
serving customer load must pay for distribution upgrades in some 
circumstances , in light of direction in L.D. 1100 . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Like most states, Maine generally relies on  a “cost -causer-pays” rule for Distribution 
Upgrades and Interconnection Facilities. This rule provides that the project in queue that 
first triggers the need for an upgrade pays the full cost of the upgrade , along with any 
incremental operation and maintenance (“O&M”) costs of the new upgrade .7 The project 
also must pay some portion of the cost to operate and maintain that upgrade.8 The 
implication of this rule is that those projects that use up capacity before the triggering project do not contribute to the cost of the upgrade, and projects that come aft er the 
triggering project are able to use the newly expanded capacity without contributing to the upgrade cost  (certain types of upgrades can provide more capacity than is needed just for 
the project triggering the upgrade) . 
 In most circumstances, small p rojects (i.e., those under 30 kW ) are unlikely to  trigger 
a Distribution Upgrade beyond the service transformer. (Under Maine’s procedures, it 
 
7 ME Code R. § 65- 407, ch. 324 (“Chapter 324”), § 3(B).  However, Chapter 324 provides that Level 4 
projects may be reimbursed by later projects for a portion of the costs of certain large upgrades (over 
$200,000) that provide capacity for later projects. Chapter 324, § 12(G). The Commission has allowed 
Central Maine Power to apply a modified version of the cost- sharing approach outlined in section 12( G) to 
allocate costs for Transmission Ground Fault Over Voltage upgrades. ME Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 2021-
00082, Central Maine Power Co. Request for Approval of Waiver Regarding Section 12(G) of Chapter 324, 
Order Granting Waiver (May 6, 2021).  
8 Chapter 324, section  3(B) provides, in full: “The Interconnection Customer shall be responsible for (1) the 
actual construction cost of its Distribution Upgrades, as may be adjusted for Contingent Upgrades pursuant to § 12(F), and (2) all incremental expenses incurred to operate and maintain (O&M) the Distribution 
Upgrades.  In determining what O&M expenses are incremental, the T&D Utility shall include an offset for 
the O&M expenses that the utility would otherwise incur on the existing facilities. Specific O&M char ges will 
be established by Commission Order for each T&D Utility.” 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
11  
appears that a transformer is a Distribution Upgrade if it is located at or beyond the Point 
of Common Coupling (“PCC”);9 if it is located before the PCC, it is considered an 
Interconnection Facility.10) Relative to other Distribution Upgrades, s ervice transformer 
upgrade s are relatively inexpensive but can still significantly impact the economic viability  
of small projects.11 Occasionally, however, even small projects might trigger a more 
significant upgrades such as substation or line upgrades. For example, Versant Power 
recently determined that a 45.6 kW  project required 7 miles of new 12 kV line because the 
substation was considered full.12 Versant informally estimated the cost of that upgrade at 
$700,000, which was not  a viable cost for this project to bear.13 While this situation —a 
small project triggering significant upgrade costs— is unusual, issues like this are likely to 
become more common as  penetration of DERs  (of all sizes) increases on Maine’s aging 
distribution system , as has occurred in other states. 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
Through L.D. 1100, the Legislature directed the Commission to evaluate reforms to 
the Interconnection Procedures that would ensure that interconnection costs for 
“residential and non -residential customers … install[ing] on -site solar energy generation 
and battery stora ge systems” to “offset [their] electrical consumption  … are limited to 
interconnection facility upgrades and do not include the cost of distribution upgrades.”14 
The Legislature did not indicate a limit on the size of project that could benefit from this cost waiver. Currently, Maine’s Procedures require a cost -causing project to also pay for 
any Distribution Upgrades it requires.  
 
 
9 Chapter 324, § 2(N).  
10 Id. §§ 2(N) , (DD). 
11 IREC Interview with Maine Solar Solutions (Nov. 18, 2021); IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 
7, 2021).  
12 IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Jan. 19, 2022).  
13 Id. 
14 L.D. 1100, § 2(1).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
12  
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
While most states apply the cost -causer rule to all projects, some states have 
adopted policies regarding allocation of small project upgrade costs in line with the policy 
required by L.D. 1100 . In California and New York, for example, small net energy metering 
(“NEM”) systems do not pay for some or all of the distribution upgrades t hey may trigger.15 
New York exempts net metering projects at or under 25 kW from paying more than $350 
for distribution upgrades.16 The New York interconnection rules do not explicitly define 
how any upgrade costs above $350 are covered. California exempts NEM projects below 
1 MW from paying  any distribution or network upgrade costs.17 These upgrade costs are  
carefully tracked and recovered through the utility rate cases. The Minnesota  Public 
Utilities Commission recently adopted a  different approach which, when implemented, will 
establish a flat per-kW fee for upgrade costs for projects under 40 kW. In that case, the fee will be determined on an annual basis, and the costs will be shared across all eligible 
interconnection customers, rather than being paid for through a rate case as is done in California.
18 Only individual upgrades under $15,000 will be included (the cost will be 
spread across all eligible customers so the per-project cost will be below  that amount) . 
Massachusetts also currently has a docket open to consider interconnection cost 
allocation issues, including a proposal that could implement a flat fee for small projects 
 
15 Net metering is a billing mechanism that credits solar energy system owners for the electricity they add 
to the grid. During the day, most solar customers produce more electricity than they consume; net 
metering allows them to export that power to the grid and reduce their future electric  bills. 
16 NY Pub. Serv. Comm., Standardized Interconnection Requirements and Application Process for New 
Distribu ted Generators and Energy Storage Systems 5 MW or Less Connected in Parallel with Utility 
Distribution Systems, Appendix E: Cost Sharing for System Modifications & Cost Responsibility for Dedicated Transformer(s) and Other Safety Equipment for Net Metered Customers  (“NY SIR”)  (Dec. 2019) , 
https://www3.dps.ny.gov/W/PSCWeb.nsf/96f0fec0b45a3c6485257688006a701a/dcf68efca391ad6085257
687006f396b/$FILE/December%202019%20SIR%20 -%20FINAL%20-%20Clean.pdf . 
17 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R99 -10-025, Order Instituting Rulemaking into Distributed Generation, Decision 
D02-03-057, Opinion Interpreting Public Utilities Code Section 2827 (“CPUC Decision D02-03-057”) , p. 14 
(Mar. 21, 2002) ; E.g., Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (“PG&E”), Electric Rule No. 21: Generating Facility 
Interconnections ( “PG&E Rule 21 Tariff ”) § E.4, p. 62 (“NEM- 1 Generating Facilities and NEM -2 ≤ 1 MW 
Generating Facilities are exempt from any costs associated with Distribution or Network Upgrades. ”) (May 
19, 2021), https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/tariffbook/ELEC_RULES_21.pdf . 
18 The Minnesota Commission voted to approve this proposal in a meeting held on January 20, 2022 
regarding Docket E999/CI -16-521. The written order has yet to be issued and may define further how the 
fee will be determined.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
13  
where the costs would be shared by other small interconnection custome rs, potentially 
similar to what Minnesota is pursuing .19 
 
When implementing California’s policy, the California Public Utilit ies Commission 
(“CPUC”) reasoned that net metering was designed to encourage customer adoption of DERs, and thus required the equal treatment of DER customers and load customers.
20 The 
CPUC concluded that upgrades triggered by small systems should be rate -based, just as 
capacity upgrades to accommodate  load are largely rate-based and recovered from  all 
customers.21 Essentially, the CPUC elected to treat small generation and small load 
customers the same. Small DER customers are required to bear the costs of 
interconnection facilities specific to the customer, but any other distribution system 
upgrades would be paid for by the rate base.22   
 Since 2002, the CPUC has tracked distribution upgrade costs incurred under this 
policy so that it can change the policy should charging these costs to ratepayers prove 
unreasonable.
23 The most recent reports submitted by the California utilities on net 
metered projects below 1 MW show that the annual costs for distribution upgrades, when 
spread across the total number of customer accounts, amount to $ 0.09 in San Diego Gas 
& Electric’s territory, $ 0.22 in Southern California Edison’s territory, and $3.57 in Pacific 
Gas & Electric’s territory.24 For reference, the data also show that if these costs were 
 
19 See generally MA Dept. Pub. Util. , Dkt. 20 -75. 
20 CPUC Decision D 02-03-057 at p. 10.  
21 Id. at p. 14 (“Generators eligible for net energy metering . . . are exempt from paying for costs associated 
with interconnection studies, distribution system modifications, or application review fees.”). 
22 Id. at pp. 7, 13 -14. 
23 Id. at p. 11.  
24 See San Diego Gas & Electric Co (“SDG&E”), Advice Letter 3851- E, Information Only Filing Regarding Net 
Energy Metering (NEM) Costs (Sept. 20, 2021) (“SDG&E Advice Letter on Net Metering Costs”), 
https://tariff.sdge.com/tm2/pdf/3851- E.pdf ; Southern California Edison (“SCE”) , Advice Letter 4591 -E-A, 
Supplemental Advice to 4591-E, Information-Only Advice Letter, Southern California Edison Company’s 
Report on Net Energy Metering Interconnection Costs  (Nov. 19, 2021) (“SCE Advice Letter on Net Metering 
Costs”); PG&E, Advice Letter 6367- E, Information- Only Filing Regarding Net Energy Metering (NEM) Costs  
(Oct. 15, 2021) (“PG&E Advice Letter on Net Metering Costs”), 
https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/adviceletter/ELEC_6367-E.pdf .  For purposes of ca lculating the cost 
spread across the entire customer base, the following numbers were used—SDG&E: 1.4 million customer 
accounts; SCE: 5 million customer accounts; PG&E: 5.5 million customer accounts. SDG&E, About Us , 
(footnote continued on next page) 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
14  
instead to be allocated among all projects that receive the cost waiver  (those below 1 MW) , 
the cost for distribution upgrades per applican t in the last annual report would have been  
$59.78 per project in San Diego Gas & Electric’s territory, $ 44.24 in Southern California 
Edison’s territory, and $ 313.36  in Pacific Gas & Electric’s territory.25 These figures fluctuate 
over time, going up and down depending on the upgrades triggered each year, though 
overall they trend upward as the volume of NEM projects and corresponding DER penetration grows.  
 The Massachusetts and Minnesota proceedings have also provided data that 
enable calculation of small project upgrade costs for projects in those states . For example, 
National Grid in Massachusetts has reported that it received 9,010 Simplified Process (under 25 kW) applications in 2020 and that it cost a total of $749,288 to construct upgrades to accommodate these projects— the equivalent of $83 per project .
26 Averaged 
across National Grid’s 1.2 million electric customers in Massachusetts, the costs of upgrades for Simplified Process projects is $0.62 per customer. A stakeholder in 
Minnesota calculated that  the cost of upgrades for proje cts under 40 kW in Xcel Energy’s 
territory would have recently average d $100-150 per project if spread across all eligible 
projects.
27 
 
 
https://www.sdge.com/more -information/our-company/about- us (accessed on Dec. 16, 2021); SCE, Our 
Story , https://www.edisoncareers.com/page/show/about- sce/ (accessed on Dec. 16, 2021); PG&E, Company 
Profile , https://www.pge.com/en_US/about -pge/company-information/profile/profile.page  (accessed on 
Dec. 16, 2021).  
25 See San Diego Gas & Electric Co (“SDG&E”), Advice Letter 3851- E, Information Only Filing Regarding Net 
Energy Metering (NEM) Costs (Sept. 20, 2021) (“SDG&E Advice Letter on Net Metering Costs”), 
https://tariff.sdge.com/tm2/pdf/3851- E.pdf ; Southern California Edison (“SCE”), Advice Letter 4591-E- A, 
Supplemental Advice to 4591- E, Information-Only Advice Letter, Southern California Edison Company’s 
Report on Net Energy Metering Interconnection Costs  (Nov. 19, 2021) (“SCE Advice Letter on Net Metering 
Costs”); PG&E, Advice Letter 6367- E, Information-Only Filing Regarding Net Energy Metering (NEM) Costs 
(Oct. 15, 2021) (“PG&E Advice Letter on Net Metering Costs”), 
https://www.pge.com/tariffs/assets/pdf/adviceletter/ELEC_6367-E.pdf .  
26 See MA Dept. Pub. Util., Dkt. 20 -75, Investigation by the Department of Public Utilities On Its Own Motion 
Into Electric Distribution Compani es’ (1) Distributed Energy Resource Planning and (2) Assignment and 
Recovery of Costs for the Interconnection of Distributed Generation, Comments of the Interstate 
Renewable Energy Council, Inc. on the Distributed Energy Resource Planning Proposal, p. 13 ( Dec. 23, 
2020).  
27 MN Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. E999/CI -16-521, In the Matter of Updating Generic Interconnection Standards 
for Utility Tariffs for Interconnection and Operation of Distributed Generation Facilities Under Minn. Stat. 
§216B.1611, Comments of Fre sh Energy, p. 11 (Aug. 25, 2021). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
15  
We note that other states’ costs may not be representative of the costs that would 
be incurred in Maine and are provided for illustrative purposes only. The actual costs in 
Maine will be influenced by grid conditions, utility technical requirements, and other state -
specific conditions.  
 
d. Recommendation  
For consistency with L.D. 1100, the Commission will need to revise the cost 
allocation model for projects eligible under L.D. 1100 to ensure eligible customers are not 
assigned distribution upgrade costs.  To achieve this, at a minimum, the Commission 
should revise the Procedures to (1) clearly identify which project s are eligible for the 
Distribution Upgrade cost waiver, (2) clearly identify which upgrades are Distribution 
Upgrades eligible for a waiver, and (3) determine how th e Distribution Upgrade costs 
triggered by exempt customers will be paid for. Further, we recommend that the 
Commission (4) require tracking and Commission oversight of upgrades to accommodate 
eligible projects and their costs to ensure they are reasonable. Finally, we recommend the 
Commission (5) evaluate whether the general process under Levels 1 and 2 should be revised to reflect the efficiencies achieved when Distribution Upgrade costs are not assigned to individual customers.   
 First, the Commission will need to identify which projects fall under the Legislature’s 
definition of eligible projects as “residential and nonresidential customers … install[ in] on-
site solar energy generation and battery storage systems to offset a customer’s electrical consump tion.”
28 The potentially eligible projects do not necessarily fit into the Levels 1 
through 4 review categories in Maine’s Procedures. For example,  it does not appear that 
a 1.9 MW solar project eligible for Level 2 study that is not intended to serve a customer’s 
on-site load (e.g., a subscribeable Net Energy Billing project) would be eligible for the 
legislatively mandated upgrade cost waiver. And a 2.5 MW project intended to serve on -
site load of a large manufacturing facility that would otherwise be subject to the Level 4 study process could be eligible for the upgrade cost waiver. The Commission thus should 
 
28 L.D. 1100, § 2(1).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
16  
provide a clear definition in the Procedures of which projects are eligible for the cost 
waiver. Namely, the Commission should  define what it means to “serve on -site load” and 
“to offset a customer’s electrical consumption.” For example, the Commission should consider whether a system that serves on-site load to  offset the customer’s electricity 
consumption, but is sized beyond the expected electrical demand of the customer, will qualify for the waiver.  
 Second, the Commission should make sure that the definitions of “Distribution 
Upgrades” and “Interconnection Facilities” are clear  because these definitions will control 
which upgrades are eligible for a cost waiver. The current procedures may be ambiguous 
by defining each category as not including the other category. Specifically, Distribution 
Upgrades are defined as “additions, modifications, and upgrades to the Interconnecting T&D Utility’s Distribution System at or beyond the Point of Common Coupling to accommodate interconnection” and specifically exclude “Interconnection Facilities.”
29 
Interconnection Facilities are defined as “facilities and equipment that are necessary to physically and electrically interconnect the ICGF to the  T&D Distribution System” and “shall 
not include distribution upgrades.”
30 While it appears that  any upgrade “at or beyond” the 
PCC may be considered a Distribution Upgrade,31 it will be important to ensure there is no 
ambiguity. This could perhaps be achieved by revising the definition of “Interconnection 
Facilities” to explicitly include only facilities and equipment on the customer side o f the 
PCC, thus having both definitions identify the PCC as the “dividing line” between the two 
types of construction . 
 Similarly, the Commission will need to clarify whether O&M costs for Distribution 
Upgrades should be borne by projects serving on -site load. Currently, the Procedures 
require the interconnection customer to pay the incremental O&M costs for Distribution Upgrades needed by the project. L.D. 1100 did not address whether these applicants should continue to pay O&M, stating only that  their  interconnection costs should “not 
 
29 Chapter 324, § 2(N).  
30 Id. § 2(DD).  
31 See id.  § 2(N).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
17  
include the cost of distribution upgrades.” On one hand, O&M costs are not included in the 
definition of “Distribution Upgrades” in the procedures, and thus the Commission could continue to have projects serving on -site load pay O&M for the distribution upgrades they 
cause to be built. On the other hand, the Commission could also reasonably interpret L.D. 1100 to be intended to relieve these customers of any costs related to distribution upgrades and consider allocating O&M co sts elsewhere.  
 Third, while the Legislature indicated Distribution Upgrade costs should not be 
borne by eligible interconnection customers, L.D. 1100 does not identify who should pay 
for those upgrades when they are necessary. Thus, the Commission will need to determine how the Distribution Upgrade costs that are triggered by exempt projects will be paid. For instance, costs could be allocated to ratepayers, funded through allocation of State funds by the Legislature, or some other mechanism identified by the Commission  that aligns with 
the direction provided by L.D. 1100 .  
 Fourth, we recommend that the Commission regularly review the Distribution 
Upgrades planned and constructed under the cost waiver program, which will allow the Commission to ensure that the costs are reasonable regardless of who pays. For example, if the Commission decides that ratepayers should bear some of the costs, Commission scrutiny as part of the utilities’ rate cases would potentially be the most appropriate oversight mechanism. If that were the case, the Commission could require utilities to document in their rate cases the costs of the upgrades and how much capacity for eligible projects was achieved through the upgrades. On review of this information, the Commission may also consider whether other policy issues are implicated by this program. For example, what if an upgrade paid for by ratepayers to facilitate the cost waiver program also creates more capacity on the circuit generally— it may be appropriate for subsequent, 
non-eligible projects to pay ratepayers back for use of that new capacity.
32 By requiring 
utilities to report on upgrades and associated costs that will be charged to ratepayers, the 
Commission would ensure that upgrades are reasonable, cost -effective, and right-sized 
 
32 Considerations like this are another reason the Commission may want to consider an Integrated 
Distribution Planning (“IDP”) approach, as discussed in Section II.B.3  of this report. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
18  
for efficien cy. If the Commission identifies different, or additional, methods to cover the 
cost of the distribution upgrad es (beyond ratepayers)  it should ensure there is an 
appropriate mechanism in place to  ensure the upgrade costs are indeed reasonable  and 
necessary. 
 
In addition to tracking the reasonableness of costs, we note that there may be some 
circumstances in which it may not be prudent to construct grid upgrades to accommodate eligible projects. While most upgrades to accommodate customer -sited projects may be 
reasonable, as mentioned above and discussed in interviews with the utilities, there is the 
occasional small customer-sited project that needs significant upgrades (like the seven miles of new line mentioned above). The Commission, or perhaps the Legislature, may need to consider whether it serves the State’s policy goals to require that someone other than the project applicant pay for a very expensive upgrade that would facilitate interconnection of only one or a few small projects. This issue could be addressed through measures like a cap on the cost of individual upgrades eligible for the cost waiver, a cap on total annual program costs, or, when a certain threshold is met (e.g., only one customer 
would benefit), that threshold could trigger some form of cost -benefit analysis that takes 
into account societal and environmental benefits in addition to the benefits to the individual project applicant. 
 Finally, the Procedures would likely benefit from revision  to reflect process 
efficiencies that can be achieved through the cost waiver. Currently, Level 1 and Level 2 
projects typically must go on to Level 4 study when they do not pass the review screens or Additional Review, though sometimes a project may move ahead if modified. And, as 
mentioned above, some Level 4 sized projects may be eligible for the cost waiver. The 
Legislature’s goal in L.D. 1100 seems to be increased efficiency for customer-sited projects 
serving on -site load, and so the Commission should consider whether revisions to the 
different review processes or a new, streaml ined application and review process for these 
projects is warrant ed, to allow utilities to efficiently evaluate potential grid impacts and 
identify necessary upgrades. For example, in California, the utility may move cost waiver 
eligible projects through screening, supplemental review, detailed study, or group study processes without waiting for consent of the applicant  because the applicant is not 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
19  
responsible for study or upgrade costs.33 Similarly, in Maine, the Procedures could be 
revised to remove the n eed for an eligible project applicant ’s consent for Additional 
Review (or supplemental review, if adopted, as proposed below) or further study under 
Level 4 if the project fails screening. An applicant consent requirement should be eliminated only if the applicant would not be required to pay the study costs. Likewise, a 
feasibility or facilities study under Level 4 is likely unnecessary for eligible projects as the 
applicant would not be responsible for identified upgrade costs, and it may even be 
possible to consolidate the Level 4 studies into one single study for eligible projects.
34 
 
2. Issue : The definition of “Aggregated Generation ” leaves gaps in 
how projects  will be studied and upgrade costs allocated.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures and Practices  
Many of the technical review screens for Level 1 and Level 2, including the often -
failed Screen 7(A) (the “15% of peak load” or “penetration” screen) ,35 evaluate the impact 
of “Aggregated Generation .”36 The Commission recently revised the Procedures to define 
“Aggregated Generation” to include all existing and operating DER, along with proposed 
DER projects that have received an interconnection agreement and that have fully paid interconnection costs, including study and upgrade costs.
37 This means that when a Level 
1 or Level 2 project is screened, the screens will take into account operating DER and DER with 100% of costs paid, but will not consider othe r projects in the queue ahead of the 
project being screened. Recently, Central Maine Power requested that the Commission 
reconsider its decision on the definition of “A ggregated Generation,” expressing concern 
that the definition could result in necessary distribution upgrades being “missed” or not 
 
33 See PG&E Rule 21 Tariff, § D.13.a.  
34 We note that these efficiencies would improve only the process under Maine’s interconnection rules. 
Projects over 1 MW may also be subject to an additional study process, including cluster studies, through 
ISO-NE’s interconnection process.  
35 For further discussion of Screen 7(A), see Sections II.A.3  and II.A.6 . 
36 See Chapter 324, § 7(A); see also id. §§ 7(B), (C), (E).  
37 ME Pub. Util . Comm., Dkt. 2021 -00167, Amendments to Small Generator Interconnection Procedures 
(Chapter 324) (“Dkt. 2021 -00167”), Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 4 
(Dec. 21, 2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
20  
being allocated to a specific project.38 CMP suggested instead that “ Aggregated 
Generation” include all DER with a signed interconnection agreement,39 a 
recommendation that Versant Power supports.40 We note that even under that approach, 
some projects ahead in queue could still not be included in the Aggregated Generation 
definition.  
 
b. The Need for Improvement   
The issue of the definition of “Aggregated Generation ” highlights the need to 
balance two factors: on one hand,  the State’s policy interest in moving the (generally 
smaller) solar projects serving on -site load forward with minimal delay, and on the other,  
the need to ensure that interconnection is an efficient and predictable process for 
proposed DER of all sizes. The current definition of “Aggregated Generation ” avoids 
potentially burdening smaller, Level 1 and Level 2  projects with screen failures and 
upgrade costs that are based on presumed generation that may never be built.  By 
requirin g queued -ahead projects to have an interconnection agreement and costs fully 
paid, the existing Procedures create certainty that the presumed aggregated generation 
is actually going to use the capacity allocated to it during the screening process. This, in  
turn, creates a more streamlined path toward interconnection for small projects and avoids having small projects drop out due to being assigned high -cost upgrades that actually may 
not be necessary.  
 However, as explained by CMP in its request for reconsideration, the risk of this 
approach is that i t fails to take into consideration projects with signed interconnection 
agreements that have not yet fully paid. These projects are still likely to go forward, and if 
their generation is not assumed when screening the smaller project, there could be a necessary upgrade that is not accounted for, potentially impacting safety and reliability or resulting in unallocated upgrade costs. Likewise, queued-ahead Level 4 projects without 
 
38 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Central Maine Power Company Reques t for Reconsideration Regarding Definition of 
Aggregated Generation (Jan. 4, 2022). 
39 Id. at pp. 2 -3. 
40 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Versant Power Letter in Support of Central Maine Power Company Request for 
Reconsideration Regarding Definition of Aggregated Generation (Jan. 18, 2022).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
21  
a signed interconnection ag reement are also not taken into account and may eventually 
interconnect, and the utility may be required to restudy these projects as smaller projects 
move ahead and change grid conditions assumed in the studies.   
 Another concern, if the cost waiver approach discussed in Section II.A.1, above, is 
adopted, is that ratepayers could end up paying for upgrades for a Level 1 or 2 project that moved ahead of  a Level 4 project that would otherwise have been borne by the Level 4 
project. Finally, this approach could end up saddling some Level 2 projects not otherwise 
eligible for a cost waiver with upgrade costs they may not otherwise have to bear. If a 
queued -ahead project would have been required to construct an upgrade to 
accommodate itself, that upgrade may also have created new capacity for the Level 2 project. By effectively moving ahead of that project in the queue by disregarding it during 
screening, the Level 2 project may incur costs it otherwise need not have. 
 On the other hand, if the Procedures define “ Aggregated Generation ” to include all 
queued -ahead projects (as is the practice in most states ; see discussion below), the impact 
to small projects may be that they are faced with significant upgrade requirements and delays because every other queued -ahead project will be assumed to be using available 
capacity on the circuit —even though it is relatively common for projects to occasionally 
drop o ut. Further, this approach does not give “priority” to small projects, which the 
Commission’s order on this issue suggests may be a policy goal. When all queued -ahead 
generation is presumed for screening, a large Level 4 project on the same circuit could consume all remaining available capacity without having to pay for upgrades, leaving smaller, later-queued projects with infeasible upgrade costs. 
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Neither IREC’s Model I nterconnection Procedures or any other state rules t hat we 
reviewed for this report  or are  otherwise aware of expressly define aggregate d generation.  
In the context of pre -application reports, which are available to give applicants insight into 
conditions that may affect review and approval of their projects, “available capacity” is typically defined to include both aggregated existing generation capacity and aggregate d 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
22  
queued generation capacity (regardless of the status of the interconnection agreement).41 
Further, it is IREC’s understanding based on our involvement in interconnection 
proceedings across the United States that all queued-ahead generation is typically counted towards aggregate d generation because it is assumed it will be interconnected 
before the project under review.  While state rules often do not describe the  exact  meaning 
of a queue position in detail, it is typically treated as essentially a “reservation” of the remaining capacity at the very least . The procedures in Minnesota, for example, do 
expressly specify that the “Queue Position also establishes conditional interconnection capacity for an Interconnection Customer. . .  .”
42 
 
d. Recommendation  
The Commission has a number of options, some discussed elsewhere in this report, 
on how to streamline interconnection of small, customer-sited projects while ensuring 
other projects are timely and fairly interconnected, too. As explained above, the definition 
of “Aggregated Generation ” recently adopted by the Commission does not resolve how 
upgrade costs should be allocated if some approved generation does not get “counted” when identifying upgrades, or if queued-ahead projects face restudy based on smaller projects moving ahead.  However, there are ways to avoid these issues, and, at a minimum, 
the Commission could consider defining what happens when a queued -ahead project is 
later interconnected relative to the smaller project whose screening did not take that project into account .  
 The goal of the Commission’s newly adopted definition of “Aggregated Generation ” 
is to help streamline the interconnection process for Level 1 and Level 2 projects.
43 This 
goal can also be achieved , at least in part, by not requiring small projects to pay for 
 
41 See, e.g. , IREC, Model Interconnection Procedures  2019  (“IREC Model Interconnection Procedures”) , § 
B.1.d  (Sept. 2019), https://irecusa.org/resources/irec -model -interconnection-procedures- 2019/  (“Available 
capacity (MW) of substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to serve proposed site. Available capacity is 
the total capacity less the sum of existing and queued Generating Capacity, accounting for all load served 
by existing and queued generators.”).  
42 MN Pub. Util. Comm., State of Minnesota Distributed Energy Resources Interconnection process (“MN 
DIP”) , § 1.8.1, (Apr. 19, 2019),  https://mn.gov/puc/assets/MN%20DIP_tcm14-431769.pdf .  
43 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Notice of Rulemaking, p. 6 (July 20, 2021). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
23  
upgrade costs, as discussed in Section II.A.1  of this report.  Such a policy would minimize 
the risk of a small project being assigned upgrade costs based on the assumption that all 
proposed generation queued ahead of it would be interconn ected. Further, taking 
queued -ahead projects into consideration helps ensure whoever is funding upgrades for 
projects serving on -site load is not paying for upgrades that should have been paid for by 
larger, queued-ahead exporting projects. Note, however,  there may still be delays 
depending on the speed of study of the queued -ahead Level 4 projects and the time it 
takes for their upgrades to be constructed. The Commission should thus consider whether 
adopting a cost waiver provides sufficient streamlining to allow projects to remain in a single queue .  
 If some projects  considered during screening of the smaller, cost waiver eligible 
project later drop out, it would not require restudy of the small project or revision of its 
interconnection agreement (for example, to see if a distribution upgrade was no longer necessary). Instead , the utility would adjust its tracking of the distribution upgrade costs 
for the waiver to  accommodate  the change in upgrade needs (which would not require the 
usual restudy and meetings with the applicant to ensure financial feasibility). 
 Another option would be to reserve a certain amount of capacity on each circui t for 
small projects. At least one state has taken this approach for the smallest projects: South 
Carolina requires utilities to reserve circuit capacity for projects under 20 kW, which generally do not require study, with the amount of capacity reserved based on the circuit voltage.
44 The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission also recently grappled with this issue 
when regulated  utility Xcel Energy proposed imposing a limit on DER development on 
certain circuits, with some remaining capacity reserved for small DER projects.45 
Opposition to Xcel’s proposal focused largely on the size of the carveout, not the idea 
 
44 SC Pub. Serv. Comm., Dkt. 2015- 362-E, In re Joint Application of Duke Energy Carolinas , LLC, Duke 
Energy Progress, LLC and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company for Approval of the Revise South 
Carolina Interconnection Standard, Order No. 2016 -191, Order Adopting Interconnection Standard and 
Supplemental Provisions, Exh. 1  (“South Carolina Generator Interconnection Procedures, Forms, and 
Agreements”) , § 2.1  (Apr. 26, 2016) .  
45 See MN Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. E999/CI -16-521, In the Matter of Updating the Generic Standards for the 
Interconnection and Operation of Distributed Generation Facilities Established under Minn. Stat. § 
216B.1611, Staff Briefing Papers, pp. 24 -27 (Jan. 12, 2022) (staff briefing discussing parties’ positions).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
24  
generally, and the fact that there were other viable solutions on the table.46 At a hearing 
on January 20, 2022, the Commission rejected Xcel’s proposal, but a written order has not 
been issued yet.  
 The benefit of this approach is that it can eliminate or narrow the need for screening 
of small projects until available capacity is consumed, thus creating a more streamlined process for small projects without impacting study or upgrades for larger projects. The 
Commission would need to develop an approach to identifying how much capacity to reserve. It could be a specific amount of capacity based on circuit voltage (like in South 
Carolina) or a percentage of available capacity. A more refined approach could be to also 
consider the likely potential for customer-sited DER to be proposed on the circuit, but this 
may prove to be a complex analysis. However, where circuits are currently oversubscribed with existing and proposed generation or once the capacity reservation is used up, the same issue about order of study will arise.  
 Finally, many of the issue s discussed here could be addressed, at least in part, by 
adopting a process where by utilities conduct proactive upgrades, identified via a planning 
process, when circuits are nearing capacity, to create more capacity reserve d for small 
projects. In light of the cost waiver identified in L.D. 1100, this may also be an approach that 
can result in more efficient use of ratepayer resources when combined with broader distribution system planning. A more detailed discussion of forward-looking Integrated 
Distribution P lanning like the process described above  is discussed in Section II.B.3 , below.  
 
 
46 Id. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
25  
3. Issue : The current manner in which “automatic sectionalizing 
devices” are defined  for Screen 7(A) (the “15% of peak load” or 
“penetration” screen) results in excessive screen failure without 
safety and reliability benefits.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
i. Maine’s Screen 7(A)  
Maine’s Procedures require Level 1 and Level 2 projects to undergo screening to 
assess whether a proposed project has the potential to impact grid safety and reliability.47 
The purpose of the review screens is to flag projects that may pose a risk while passing all projects that would not have safety and reliability risks. The screens do this by applying 
relatively conservative assumptions to quickly assess whether a facility can interconnect to the distribution grid without the need for further study . Failing a screen does not mean 
a project will require an upgrade, only that it requires additional review.  
 Screen 7 (A), also known as the “15% of peak load screen” or “penetration screen,”  
is the most commonly  failed screen in most jurisdictions, as  the threshold it uses is also the 
most restrictive . Screen 7(A) is designed to evaluate the potential for backed due to  DER 
and serves as a sort of conservative “catch all” for potential grid impacts. The screen 
attempts to achieve this by  comparing the Aggregated Generation to the peak load on the 
“line section.”
48 A project passes this screen if the Aggregated Generation  does “not 
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the line section’s annual peak load as most recently measured or calculated at the substation. ”
49 A “line section ” is the portion of a distribution 
system bounded by “automatic sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line.”50 
In a recent Order, the Commission recognized that there is disagreement among stakeholders regarding the definition of “automatic sectionalizing device” and whether a 
 
47 See Chapter 324, §§ 9(B), 10 (B). 
48 Id. § 7(A). 
49 Id. 
50 Id. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
26  
fuse should qualify as an automatic sectionalizing device to define a  line section.51 The 
Commission indicated that it intended to review the issue again in a later rulemaking 
proceeding.52 
 The 15% of peak load limit sets a conservative , low penetration level at which 
detailed impacts, such as those due to higher penetration levels, are not analyzed . The 
idea is that those impacts, like “unintentional islanding, voltage aberrations, protection miscoordination, and other potentially negative impacts are unlikely if the amount of D[ is 
tributed] G[eneration] capacity is significantly smaller than feeder capacity and always less than feeder load.”
53 Certain impacts may be  avoided if the aggregate d DER does not feed 
more power into the grid than the feeder’s minimum load (the time of lowest demand on the relevant line section). When the screen was first developed, minimum load data were 
not readily available, and so the screen looks at peak load, which data are more widely available. Fifteen percent  of peak load was intended to serve as a proxy for 50% of 
minimum load because, for typical distribution circuits in the United States, minimum load is approximately 30% of peak load.
54 Using an approximation of 50%  of the minimum load 
provides a very high likelihood that there will be no unintentional islanding, voltage 
deviations, protection miscoordination, or other potentially negative impacts because the combined DER on a line section is always less than the minimum lo ad.  
 As explained in detail in Section II.A.6.b , below, this screen is likely more 
conservative than is necessary to ensure safety and reliability. However, it  was developed 
at a time when there was less data available about load and less familiarity with DER and thus its crafters selected a highly conservative metric.  Further, the screen is currently 
applied to look at full, nameplate capacity of all of the Aggregated Generation instead of 
 
51 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 6 (Dec. 21, 2021) 
52 Id. 
53 Robert J. Broderick & Abraham Ellis, Evaluation of Alternatives to the FERC SGIP Screens for PV , 
Interconnection Studies, Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), 2012 38th IEEE, 
10.1109/PVSC.2012.6317712.  
54 Michael Coddington, et al., Updating Interconnection Screens for PV System Integration, National 
Renewable Energy Laboratories, p. 2 (Feb. 2012), https://www.nrel.gov /docs/fy12osti/54063.pdf .  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
27  
considering whether projects have limited their export capacity, which may further limit its 
usefulness as a screening tool.55 
 
ii. Versant has  been narrowly defining “line section ,” 
leading it to evaluate generation on an unnecessarily 
small line section . 
Currently, Maine’s Procedures, like many others, define “line section ” as “that 
portion of a distribution system connected to a customer bounded by automatic 
sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line.”56 Versant defines “line section” 
for evaluation of Screen 7(A) utilizing fuses .57 CMP informed IREC that it does not have 
peak load data by line section, and so it evaluates the screen by looking at the total circuit peak load  compared to total generation on the circuit .
58 In other words, the utilities do not 
currently evaluate the screen in the same man ner.  
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
 Currently, Versant appears to be applying too narrow a definition of “line section” 
in Screen 7(A) by including a fuse as an “automatic sectionalizing device.” There are two issues to be addressed with application of Screen  7(A). First, the screen is quite 
conservative, and thus it should not be applied in a way that aggressively screens out projects that will not pose grid safety and reliability concerns. Second, because application of the screen hinges on how “line section” and “automatic sectionalizing devices” are defined, those definitions should be clear to all parties and applied with some consistency across the utilities (while allowing for differences in the utilities’ systems and available data).  
 
 
55 See Section II.A.9 , below, regarding integration of energy storage and export controls. 
56 Chapter 324, § 7(A).  
57 See Dkt. 2021 -00167, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 5 (Dec. 21, 
2021); see also IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021); Dkt. 2021 -00167, Versant Power 
Preliminary Comments, pp. 12- 13 (Aug. 11, 2021).  
58 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
28  
An overly narrow definition of “line section” can result in projects failing the screen 
where there is no meaningful risk to the distribution system, thereby undermining the 
usefulness of the screening process. Generally, using a fuse as the bounds of the line section accounts only for the proposed DER itself and a very small portion of downstream load. When screened against only the proposed DER’s generation and a small amount of other load, a project will almost always exceed 15% of such a small line section’s peak load. Similarly, the next upstream sectionalizing device may in many cases be another fuse that 
could also account for only a small portion of feeder load. While it is true that any switch or fuse on the system is a potential sectionalizing point, selecting the first upstream sectionalizing device is a narrow application of the screen that is not necessary to identify whether impacts could be created on the distribution circuit. Specifically, voltage, thermal, protection, or unintentional islanding issues caused by reverse power flow —all of which 
may be caught by the 15% of peak screen— would not be missed if the screen were applied 
to a larger portion of the line section.  
 At DER penetration levels below minimum feeder load, there is much less likelihood 
of reverse power flow through a significant portion of the distribution circuit, as loads located along the circuit and downstream of DER will utilize the exported power. Ho wever, 
if a small enough section of circuit is selected for analysis, the likelihood of reverse power flow through that section increases. As an extreme example, if a utility selected a line 
section directly at the proposed DER’s Point of Common Coupling (“PCC”), the screen would certainly not be passed, though this would give the utility little information about whether or not the DER would cause negative effects on the distribution system. Lack of reverse power flow on a larger section of the circuit would indicate that steady-state voltage issues are unlikely to arise. To analyze whether issues are likely to arise due to reverse power flow, a balance must be struck between selecting too small and too large a line section, as appropriate for the interconnected location of the DER.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions are Doing  
As explained above, the 15% of peak load/penetration screen is widely used in 
interconnection procedures across the count ry. However, t o date, IREC has only 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
29  
encountered a similarly narrow  appli cation of the penetration screen as Versant’s 
approach by one utility in North Carolina.59 In North Carolina, stakeholders noticed that the 
penetration screen was experiencing a startling failure rate in one utility’s territory 
compared to other states and  utilities. Upon further investigation and conversations with 
developers and the utility, IREC determined that the high failure rate was due to the utility’s use of a similarly narrow definition of “line section” to the one used by Versant. This led to 
a study by the Electric Power Research Institute (“EPRI”) in which EPRI recommended 
applying the screen using least one device upstream from the fuse.
60 The utility complied 
with this recommendation. 
 Elsewhere, even in high penetration jurisdictions like California, the application of 
this screen is not as restrictive as applied by Versant in Maine. Because “line section ” is 
not often more precisely defined, limited data exist on exactly how other utilities apply the 
screen, though very high failure rates would likely reveal a problem as was the case here 
and in North Carolina.  
 
d. Recommendation  
i. The procedures should clarify what may serve as an “automatic sectionalizing device.”  
Instead of identifying the “automatic sectionalizing device” for the purpose of 
Screen 7(A) as the first upstream sectionalizing device (such as a fuse), as is Versant’s current practice, we recommend that the Commission revise the procedures to clarify that “automatic sectionalizing device” for the purposes of Screen 7(A) means interrupting devices like line reclosers. A line reclose r is a point that breaks up a feeder, where islands 
could form and where load data may be available.
61 And unlike a fuse, a line recloser can 
 
59 See generally  NC Util. Comm., Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, In the Matter of Petition for Approval of Revisions to 
Generator Interconnection Standards.  
60 See NC Util. Comm., Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, In the Matter of Petition for Approval of Revisions to Generator 
Interconnection Standards, Electric Power Institute’s Independent Assessment of Duke Energy’s Fast Track 
Review Process for DER Interconnection, pp. 4 -4 to 4- 6. (Oct. 23, 2019) . 
61 Some engineering judgment should be used to identify the relevant sectionalizing device. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
30  
automatically re-ener gize a line, which IREC believes fits with the intended definition in 
Screen 7(A). IREC recommends the procedures indicate that the first recloser upstream of 
the DER on the primary feeder should generally be utilized as the “automatic sectionalizing device.” If no reclosers are upstream of a DER, then the substation circuit breaker would be the next automatic sectionalizing device.  
  In conversations with IREC, Versant has expressed concern that it must define “line 
section” at the fuse to screen for unintentional islanding and load rejection overvoltage. Other islanding -related impacts that could be screened for, in addition to those Versant 
identified in particular, are reclosing into an island and ground fault overvoltage. While one 
way Screen 7(A) avoids these potential impacts is by serving as a proxy to ensure load will “swamp” generation —that is, that there will always be more load than generation on the 
line section (which depends on actual load at the time of the event, rather than the maximum load) —each of these risks is also mitigated through means besides swamping. 
Specifically, voltage, thermal, protection, or unintentional islanding issues caused by reverse power flow —all of which may be caught by the 15% of peak screen— would not be 
missed if the screen were applied to a larger portion of the line section. This is why the screen may be safely applied over larger line sections to screen for general higher penetration issues without unnecessarily failing projects that would have no  significant grid 
impacts requiring mitigation .  
 First, there is not a technical reason to screen for unintentional islanding on as small 
a line section as it is bounded by the first fuse. The risk of unintentional islanding on such a small line section is extremely low because both active and reactive power must be matched between load and generation when a line section is separated due to a blown fuse, which is extremely unlikely to happen. The fuse blowing is indicative that a line fault occurred within the line section, which would likely cause voltage at the DER location to be greatly disrupted, causing power disruption and potentially DER tripping. It is also unlikely that power -matched conditions, if achieved in the moment after the fuse blows, 
could continue for ver y long with the small amount of load and generation on a fuse -
bounded line section. Any variances in power would likely cause the island to collapse (power flow tends to fluctuate more over smaller sections of a circuit). Additionally, the 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
31  
active anti-isla nding feature of inverters is designed to detect an island with power -
matched conditions and shut down the DER, and on a smaller line section bounded by a 
fuse, the island condition would be similar to that tested in the lab and thus the inverter would serve to prevent unintentional islanding. Further, the conditions that could diminish inverters’ active anti-islanding effectiveness
62 are unlikely to be present when the 
interconnecting DER is the only DER present on this line section. And if a fuse has blown and caused an island to form, it must be manually replaced, which will mostly likely take hours, during which time the utility crew can take precautions to ensure that there remains no island before replacing the fuse, ensuring the crew’s safety.  
 Second , load rejection overvoltage can be mitigated by using inverters compliant 
with IEEE 1547 -2018 or Hawaiian Electric Company’s current requirements. In 
conversations with IREC, Versant has indicated it is taking this approach already. Load rejection overvoltage can occur when a line section with DER separates from the rest of the electric system. If generation on that section is then much higher than the load, a transient overvoltage can occur, potentially causing damage to customer or utility equipment. Common potential points of damage are utility lightning arrestors which are meant to be sacrificed on overvoltage.  
 Several years ago, Hawaiian Electric began investigating how to manage the risk of 
load rejection overvoltage for feeders with very high penetration. They introduced qualification testing to their “TrOV -2” requirements, which tests for the ability of inverters 
to avoid da maging load -rejection overvoltage. Manufacturers submit their data to the utility 
along with other certifications and attestations in order to be listed on the qualified equipment list. The test procedure used is based on one developed by the Forum on Inverter Grid Integration Issues and tested by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
(“NREL”) before being adopted by Hawaiian Electric. It eventually served as the basis for the IEEE 1547.1-2020 tests for load rejection overvoltage.  
 
 
62 Such as those simulated in the following report: Michael E. Ropp , et al. , Unintentional Islanding Detection 
Performance with Mixed DER Types , Sandia National Laboratories (Aug. 2018), 
https://www.osti.gov/servlets/purl/1463446 . 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
32  
Once IEEE 1547 -2018 i s adopted and implemented in Maine, the UL 1741 SB inverter 
certification may be relied upon to provide assurance that damaging load rejection 
overvoltage will not occur, even at the fuse level. Until this time, where risk of damaging load rejection overvoltage is identified, IREC recommends that inverter testing to the 
Hawaiian Electric TrOV -2 requirements provide this assurance. Versant has indicated that 
it has  already begun applying this test for these purposes. Not every inverter model is 
tested, and therefore education on this topic to the development community may be necessary to ensure inverters can be sourced and specified to avoid these overvoltage concerns. 
 Third, a line section bounded by a fuse cannot reclose into an island. Reclosing into 
an island, even one that lasts for only a short time, can be very problematic if it occurs 
when the electric system and the island are out of synchronism (i.e., their voltage waveforms are not aligned). Reclosing into an island occurs when a recloser automatically attempts to reconnect the downstream line section and the DER have not ceased to energize the line section.
63 If this happens, it can cause overcurrent and damage to fuses, 
motors or generators, and transformers. However, this type of event is not an issue for fuses, which must be replaced manually under de -energized conditions.  
 Fourth , maintaining effective grounding avoids ground fault overvoltage. Ground 
fault overvoltage may occur during ground faults within an island for certain DER in certain conditions. While the overvoltage only occurs once a line section is islanded, the potential for overvoltage depends upon the configuration of the DER connection, its potential to create overvoltage, and the configuration of connected load. Maintaining effe ctive 
grounding in the line section mitigates the potential overvoltage at the fuse level without the need to keep generation power below that of the load. A utility’s existing practices should ensure that effective grounding is maintained throughout the distribution system, and thus screening for this issue is unnecessary. Understanding how inverters can be effectively grounded is an area of growing knowledge which can be supported by the 
 
63 DER is required by IEEE 1547 to cease to energize within a maximum of two  seconds when a recloser 
opens. Reclosers may or may not be equipped with voltage-supervised blocking, which could detect an 
energized line and prevent reclosing. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
33  
guidance in IEEE C62.92.6 and optional ground fault overvoltage test s in IEEE 1547.1-2020. 
See Section II.A.7.b.iv, below, on Versant’s requirements for grounding transformers. 
 
For these reasons, it is not necessary to define “line section” as bounded by a fuse. 
By doing so, the usefulness of the screen for catching actual safety and reliability concerns is lost and it instead will catch too many projects that could be interconnected safely and reliably without further study.   
 
ii. Screen 7(A)  should compare load to export capacity 
instead of aggregate nameplate  generation . 
IREC also notes here that the “ Aggregated Generation” considered in Screen 7(A ) 
should include the relevant DERs’ export capacity, not full nameplate capacity, as it is the 
export that actually has grid impacts. As discussed in more detail below in Section II.A.9 , 
this screen and a number of others would benefit from updates to recognize the benefits of energy  storage and export controls.  
 
4. Issue : Screen 7(E) (the “shared secondary” screen)  relies on an 
assumption of transformer size that may be insufficiently conservative in some cases and overly conservative in others.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Screen 7 (E) is designed to evaluate the impact of Aggregated Generation  on a 
single-phase shared secondary.
64 This screen is intended to ensure that excessive voltage 
rise does not occur on the shared secondary conductors due to the backfeed  from 
interconnected DER. To accomplish this, the screen establishes a  threshold for where 
potential impacts are assumed at twenty kilovolt -amps (20 kVA).65   
 
 
64 Chapter 324, § 7(E).  
65 Id. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
34  
b. The Need for Improvement  
The shortcoming of  using a static 20 kVA threshold is that it does not account for 
the actual size of the transformer in place at the point of interconnection . Typically, utilities 
use single- phase transformers of sizes between 15  kVA to 150  kVA.  For example, 20 kVA 
is 67% of the nameplate  rating of a 30 kVA transformer, but only 13% of a 150 kVA 
transformer. CMP noted that some single phase transformers in its territory are as large as  
167 kVA.66 Versant has indicated that their typical transformer size is 25 kVA .67 In general, 
more DER can be accommodated behind larger transformers before voltage issues arise.  
This is because the conductors feeding the load will be larger to accommodate larger loa d, 
and thus could accommodate  more  DER as well. Basing the screen on a proportional 
amount of the transformer nameplate rating would more accurately reflect actual 
conditions on the ground and result in fewer projects failing the screen unnecessarily.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions A re Doing  
While the 20 kVA limit (or a 20 kW limit ) remains in place in a number of states,68 
several states have replaced the fixed threshold of 20  kVA with a proportional threshold 
of 65% of transformer nameplate rating.69  
 
 
66 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021). 
67 Email from Dave Norman (Versant Power) to Brian Lydic (IREC) (Dec. 30, 2021) .  
68 See, e.g. , MT Admin. R. § 38.5.8409(2)(c); OR Admin. Code § 860 -082-0045(2)(d).  
69 See, e.g. , NM Pub. Reg. Comm., The New Mexico Interconnection Manual , p. 9 (July 29, 2008), 
https:// kitcarson.com/wp- content/uploads/2019/01/NM -Interconnection-Manual- 2008.pdf ; NC Util. Comm., 
Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, In the Matter of Petition for Approval of Revisions to Generator Interconnection 
Standards, North Carolina Interconnection Procedures, Forms, and Agreements, § 3.2.1.8 (June 14, 2019), 
https://www.duke -energy.com/_/media/pdfs/rates/ncinterconnections-dec.pdf?la=en ; South Carolina 
Generator Interconnection Procedures, Forms, and Agreements, § 3.2.1.7.    
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
35  
d. Recommendation  
i. Screen 7(E) should rely on 65% of the transformer’s 
nameplate rating.  
Given that the existing 20  kVA threshold  does not reflect actual transformer ratings, 
the Commission may consider adopting a screen based upon a percentage of  the 
transformer nameplate rating  instead. Sixty -five percent  of the transformer’s nameplate 
rating is the threshold in other states and is based upon research conducted by Sandia , 
which concluded this was a sufficiently conservative value .70 Adopting an approach like 
this, which evaluates impacts in relation to the actual size of the transformer in place , would  
allow projects that would not increase generation on a shared secondary beyond 65% of whatever the rating of the relevant transformer to proceed without further review or upgrades. For example, aggregated generation on a small 15 kVA transformer would hav e 
to be below 9.75 kVA for a project to pass the screen, but a project could pass with 32.5 kVA of aggregated generation on a 50 kVA transformer, and with up to 97.5 kVA aggregated generation on a 150 kVA transformer.  In some cases , this screen would be 
more conservative than the current screen and in other cases it will be less conservative.  
In particular, Versant reports that the typical transformer size in its territory is 25 kVA. Using the 65% of transformer rating measure would reduce screening threshold for these transformers from 20 kVA to 16.25 kVA.  Note that 65% is not necessarily an indication that 
an upgrade is required, like with all screens, it is a threshold that signals where further 
review may be necessary. Utilities may determine in an Addit ional Review or supplemental 
review process whether an upgrade is needed.  
 
 
70 “[T]he similarity in size of the maximum PV kW capacity and the distribution transformer kVA suggests a 
simple threshold for assessing voltage rise problems: the aggregate size of the PV systems should not 
exceed 65% of the kVA of the distribution transformer serving the systems. A simple and quick screening 
criterion can be implemented using this method of setting the threshold at a percentage of the distribution transformer size. Setting the percentage based on a set of worst case scenarios helps ensure that this 
simple and quick new screen will flag interconnection requests with high deployment levels of PV as 
higher risk and needing further study.” Robert J. Broderick & Abraham Ellis, Evaluation of Alternatives to 
the FERC SGIP Screens for PV, Interconnection Studies, Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), 2012 
38th IEEE, 10.1109/PVSC.2012.6317712 ; see also  Michael Sheehan & Thomas Cleveland, Updated 
Recommendations for Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Small Generator Interconnection 
Procedures Screens , Solar America Board for Codes and Standards, pp. 7 -8 (July 2010), 
http://www.sol arabcs.org/about/publications/reports/ferc-screens/pdfs/ABCS- FERC_studyreport.pdf
.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
36  
The Sandia research supported using 65% as a conservative threshold. However, it 
should be noted that the activation of voltage regulation functions (such as those in current 
smart inverters or those conforming to IEEE 1547-2018, including reactive power functions 
and the volt -watt function) may increase the capacity at which secondaries may be loade d 
with DER before voltage issues arise. Further research could potentially support an 
increase in the screen threshold in light of this.  
 
ii. Screen 7(E) should rely on export capacity instead of nameplate generation.  
As explained in Section II.A.9  and Section II.A.3.d.ii of this report , for some screens, 
including Screen 7(E), it makes more sense to screen projects based on aggregated export  
capacity instead of nameplate  capacity. This approach is appropriate for the shared 
secondary screen because steady state voltage rise (increasing voltage from the customer to the transformer) is only caused by steady state reverse power flow. The non -exporting 
portion of power used only on premises will not cause voltage to exceed the normal range (i.e., ANSI C84.1 range A or range B). Thus, evaluating the screen using the full aggregate nameplate capacity is overly conservative.  
 
5. Issue : Level 2 eligibility is fixed at 2 MW instead of relative to the 
likely capacity of different feeder types . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures and Practices  
Maine currently allows projects of 2 MW or less to proceed through the 
interconnection process under Level 2.
71 During a recent proceeding, the Maine utilities 
advoc ated for reducing the eligibility limit for Level 2 projects to 250 kW , reasoning this 
was appropriate  because nearly all projects above this size fail Level 2.72 
 
 
71 Chapter 324, § 2(GG).  
72 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 2 (Dec. 21, 2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
37  
b. The Need for Improvement  
As explained elsewhere in this report, the fact that many projects fail Level 2 may 
be caused by an inappropriately narrow application of Screen 7(A) and its definition of “line 
section.”73 Thus, the fact of common failure alone may not be sufficient basis to reduce the 
Level 2 eligibility threshold. However, it is reasonable to consider adopting a more 
nuanced, graduated eligibility approach that ties project size to location -related factors 
that affect the likelihood of the generator to have adverse impacts on the electric system.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Like Maine’s Procedures today, the former iteration of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) Small Generator Interconnection Procedures (“SGIP”)  
and many states’ procedures limited Level 2 review to systems up to 2 MW. More recently, 
FERC and many states have moved away from a broadly applicable cap to a table -based 
approach keyed to location -related factors.74 Specifically, the table -based approach allows 
the size limit to increase as the voltage of the line increases and if a generator is closer to 
the substation. FERC, IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures, and many states use the 
following table, which accommodates projects up to 5 MW under the Level 2 Process75: 
 
Line Capacity  
 Level 2 Eligibility  
 
Regardless of location  On > 600 amp line and  
< 2.5 miles from substation  
 
< 4 kV  
 < 1 MW  < 2 MW  
 
73 See Section II.A.3 . 
74 See, e.g. , Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm. , Small Generator Interconnection Procedures (SGIP) , p. 8 (Aug. 
27, 2018), https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020 -04/sm -gen-procedures.pdf . 
75 Id.; IREC Model Interconnection Procedures , § III.B.2.a; MN DIP, § 3.1. 1. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
38  
5 kV – 14 kV  
 < 2 MW  < 3 MW  
15 kV – 30 kV  
 < 3 MW  < 4 MW  
31 kV – 60 kV  
 < 4 MW  < 5 MW  
 
d. Recommendation  
IREC has long recommended the table -based approach to Level 2 eligibility in 
nearly all circumstances because it strikes a reasonable balance between taking into 
account factors that could limit safe and reliable interconnection of a project without upgrad es, while ensuring the maximum number of small projects receive faster review. 
Specifically, the technical screening process is the ultimate arbiter of whether or not a system can proceed under Level 2 or requires additional study.  Thus, the Level 2 size limit 
should allow the largest sized project that could potentially pass the interconnection screens on the particular line size to use the Fast Track procedures. If the project is too 
large, the screens will prevent the project from interconnecting without  study. This table, 
combined with the defined Supplemental Review process described in Section II.A.6.d of 
this report, would optimize Maine’s Level 2  study process for efficiency while ensuring grid 
safety and reliability. We believe Maine’s procedures would benefit from adopting this well-
vetted approach, too.  
 IREC is not persuaded that reducing the size limit of the Level 2 process would 
benefit the  process, and may contribute instead to  more delays and potentially expose 
applicants to more review than is necessary to ensure safety and reliability. As the volume 
of interconnection applications grow , one of the most important tools used by states is 
narrowing the number of projects that require lengthy studies. No utility can successfully 
manage high volumes of interconnection studies, and there are significant costs 
associated with preparing those studies for both the interconnection customer and the utility. 
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
39  
We recommend that the Commission consider adopting FERC’s table approach to 
Level 2 eligibility, as described above. And even i f the Commission decides to keep the 
upper limit for Level 2 projects at the current 2 MW threshold, a table could be modified to 
cap Level 2 projects at 2 MW.  
 
 In addition to adopting the eligibility table, the Commission could look to other 
approaches t o signal to customers where interconnection capacity is constrained, and 
could deploy additional mechanisms to avoid the use of screening where that is the case 
and it is necessary for study to be conducted. For example, the utilities could prepare 
hosting  capacity analyses that can provide information to a customer about whether there 
is remaining capacity to interconnect. Where there is not, but a project still wants to 
proceed to study, it could opt to voluntarily proceed directly to study. This approach would 
more accurately determine where screening or study is the appropriate approach using actual location specific assessments.   
6. Issue : Maine’s procedures lack a well-defined “Supplemental 
Review” process that ensures that utilities offer  it to applicants, 
which could streamline interconnection of low risk Level 2 DERs.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
As explained above in Section II.A.3.a.i, Level 1 and Level 2 projects are screened 
to determine whether they can connect to the distribution grid safely and reliably without 
the need for full impact studies . And a s explained above, Screen 7(A), also known as the 
“penetration screen,” is the most conservative of the Fast Track review screens and the most likely to fail. This screen requires that Aggregated Generation on a line section not 
exceed 15% of peak load on the line section.
76  
 Utilities must offer the  option of conducting “Additional Review” when a proposed 
facility fails one or more of the Level 2 screens and the utility determines that such review 
 
76 Screen 7(A) provides: “For interconnection of a proposed generator to a Radial Distribution Circuit, the 
Aggregated Generation shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the line section’s annual peak load as 
most recently measured or calculated at the sub station.” Chapter 324, § 7(A).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
40  
may allow it to connect the project to the grid safely and reliably.77 The procedures do not 
detail the scope or timing of Additional Review. They state only that the utilities should use 
Additional Review to “determine whether Minor System Modifications would enable the 
interconnection to be made consistent with safety, reliability and power quality.”78 The 
Procedures require applicants pay the cost of conducting Additional Review.79  
 Despite language in the Procedures indicating that the utilities must generally offer 
Additional Review, some Maine DER developers report that Additional Review is not 
offered consistently and that when it is offered, the scope and cost of review is unpredictable.
80 For example, if a project fails screening, Versant reports that it 
automatically performs Additional Review at no additional cost to the applicant, and that its Additional Review consist s of a circuit voltage profile analysis and screening for risk of 
islanding.
81 CMP, on the other hand, estimates and requires payment of Additional Review 
costs and performs an analysis that includes reverse power flow screening, load flow analysis, equipment loading, voltage flicker analysis, short circuit analysis, effective grounding screening, and screening for risk of islanding .
82 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
The utilities and developers generally agree that the current Level 2 procedures 
need revision. As penetration of distributed generation has increased, many Level 2 
projects now routinely fail Level 2 review. The utilities suggested in comments filed in 
 
77 Id. § 10(H). 
78 Id. Chapter 324 defines “Minor System Modifications” to “include activities such … as changing the fuse 
in a fuse holder cut-out, upgrading a transformer, changing out a pole, upgrading the line, changing the 
settings on a circuit recloser and other activities that usually entail less than thirty -two (32) hours of work 
and less than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) in materials.” Id. § 2(MM).  
79 Chapter 324, §§ 10(D), (H) (requiring utilities to produce a  non-binding, good faith estimate of the cost of 
review and applicants to pay the good faith estimate before the utility undertakes Additional Review); see 
also IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021) (reporting Additional Review of a project costs 
$500 to $2,000).  
80 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021).  IREC notes that the utilities were unable to provide 
data on exactly when Additional Review is offered, the outcome, or its costs.  
81 IREC Interview with Versant Power (Jan. 19, 2022).  
82 CMP Responses to IREC Requests for Information (Dec. 16, 2021). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
41  
Docket 2021 -0003383 that the Commission should limit Level 2 eligibility to smaller 
facilities. However, the Commission recently rejected this request and left the threshold at 
2 MW because “[l]owering the size threshold for Level 2 projects could make it difficult and 
expensive (perhaps prohibitively so) for small to medium -sized projects to be 
developed.”84  
 Developer ReVision Energy also has observed that “the current Level 2 screening 
process is insufficient for the conditions [the State is] currently experiencing.”
85 ReVision 
and other developers did not support reducing the eligibility threshold and instead recommended some form of Supplemental Review, as described in more detail below.
86 
 The issues that these stakeholders have identified stem mostly from frequent 
failures of S creen 7(A). As explained in Section II.A.3  above, Versant has been defining  
“line section” and “automatic sectionalizing device” in a way that makes this screen more likely to fail. As a result, generation on the line section already exceeds 15% of peak load 
in many areas,
87 and Screen 7(A) will always fail in these areas regardless of project size. 
Other circuits have peak loads close to the 15% threshold, causing S creen 7(A) to fail even 
for relatively small Level 2 projects.88 While these failures may be mitigated by adopting 
the recommended definitions for “line section” and “automatic sectionalizing device,” it is likely that some projects will still fail initial screening due to the conservative assumptions built into S creen 7(A).  
 
 
83 Among other inquiries, the Commission sought comment in this docket on whether Level 2 should be 
subdivided based on facility size. 
84 Dkt. 2021 -00167, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 3 (Dec. 21, 2021) . 
85 Dkt. 2021 -00167, ReVision Energy Initial Comments, p. 10 (Aug. 11, 2021). 
86 See id.  
87 ME Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 2021 -00033, Commission Initiated Inquiry into Small Generator Interconnection 
Procedure s – Chapter 324, Versant Power Comments , p. 3 (Mar. 8, 2021).  
88 Versant Power explains, for example, that projects greater than 500 kW likely will fail Screen 7(A) for 
most circuits within its territory.  Id. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
42  
The equivalent of S creen 7(A) was first introduced in California’s Rule 21 and later 
adopted in  the FERC  SGIP.89 As explained above in Section II.A.3.a.i, the screen was based 
on the rationale that risks associated with backfeeding electricity onto the distribution 
system are negligible if the combined generation on a line section is always les s than the 
minimum load.90 At the time the screen was introduced, few utilities had the means to 
measure or estimate minimum load data.91 A percentage of peak load was thus used as a 
proxy for what the minimum load on the line section would be.  
 The screen  as originally designed  uses  a low penetration threshold for triggering 
further review. Specifically, “[a] typical line section minimum load is at least 30% of the peak 
load, therefore at 15% aggregate, the generating capacity would be no more than 50% of the minimum load of the Line Section.”
92 Thus, by design, the penetration screen would 
fail when aggregate generation on the line section exceeded only half of the minimum 
load.  This helps explain why S creen 7(A) fails more frequently on circuits with higher 
penetration, even though that penetration may fall well below levels that could lead to safety and reliability concerns (e.g., when aggregate generation exceeds minimum load).  
 Currently, when a project fails Screen 7(A), or any other screen, utilit ies may offer 
Additional Review pursuant to S ection 10(H).  However, Maine’s Additional Review 
procedures do not ensure that small projects are processed efficiently after a screen failure. In particular, the Additional Review provision does not contain timelines or detail 
about what the review entails , nor does the provision explicitly require Additional Review 
be offered to all applicants who fail initial review screens. This has resulted in inconsistency 
between the utilities as to whether they offer Additional Review and, when they do, what 
the Additional Review entails. CMP reports, for example, that its Additional Review “is quite 
 
89 Kevin Fox et al. , Updating Small Generator Interconnection Procedures for New Market Conditions , 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, p. 22 (Dec. 2012), https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/56790.pdf . 
90 See id. (“As penetration increases, the risk of ‘unintentional islanding, voltage deviations, protection 
miscoordination, and other potentially negative impacts’ may increase.”).  
91 Id. 
92 Id. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
43  
in-depth and nearly identical to that of a Level 4 study.”93 Versant Power states that 
Additional Review is not useful for projects larger than 500 kW in its service territory and 
that these projects “will almost certainly need to be evaluated under the Level 4 process.”94 
Versant explains that these projects generally will require more than Minor System Modifications to overcome Screen 7(A) failures, and even where such modifications may 
suffice, they “cannot be evaluated in discrete segments” and “must be evaluated holistically.”
95 
 As project volumes grow and penetration increases, such detailed review, along 
with the add ed cost and time this review requires, could substantially clog the 
interconnection queue and delay small projects. It also is not clear that such detailed study 
is required in many cases to ensure safety and reliability, which could unnecessarily 
burden small projects with additional costs and delays. Finally, because the Procedures 
provide the utilities some  discretion in determining whether to offer Additional Review , 
they do not guarantee it is an option for applicants, further reducing the predictability of the interconnection process and potentially exposing small-project applicants to the more expensive Level 4 study process.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
States have addressed the issue of conservative initial review screens in one of two 
ways, both of which evaluate the generating capacity of proposed facilities with respect to minimum load directly, rather than using peak load as a proxy.
96 
 
93 Dkt. 2021 -00167 , CMP Supplemental Comments, p. 4 (Aug. 27, 2021). 
94 ME Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 2021 -00033, Commission Initiated Inquiry into Small Generator 
Interconnection Procedures – Chapter 324, Versant Power Comments, p. 3 (Mar. 8, 2021). 
95 Id. 
96 Minimum load data has become much more widely available since the penetration screen was originally 
introduced. Kevin Fox et al., Updating Small Generator Interconnection Procedures for New Market 
Conditions , National Renewable Energy Laboratory, p. 22 (Dec. 2012), 
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/56790.pdf  (“[A]s more utilities install Supervisory Control and Data 
Acquisition (SCADA) systems and roll-out smart grid features there is an increasing amount of [minimum 
load] data available. In addition, . . . ‘minimum load can be estimated based on standard load profiles for 
various customer classes that many utilities maintain and update on an annual basis.’”). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
44  
A defined S upplemental Review process was first adopted in California in 2011, 
FERC subsequently  adopted the process in 2013, and since then, many states, including 
Iowa, Minnesota, Arizona, and Illinois have adopted a structured supplemental review 
process.97  Supplemental Review has been widely accepted and has proven especially 
useful  where the penetration screen fails more frequently. Under the standard 
Supplemental Review process, a project that fails the initial review screens goes through 
three additional Supplemental Review screens. The first screen evaluates whether 
aggregate d generation on the line section exceeds 100% of the line section’s minimum 
load.98 If aggregate d generation exceeds minimum load, the proposed generator must go 
to detailed study.99 If the project passes the minimum load screen, however, the utility 
applies two additional screens to ensure the generator can be connected safely and reliably.
100 The first of these evaluates compliance with key technical standards for voltage 
regulation.101 The second identifies a list of typical factors that the utility uses to evaluate 
safety and reliability.102 This screen also gives the utility flexibility to consider other factors 
it deems appropriate.103 States that have instituted Supplemental Review ha ve required 
that utilities offer the process upon failure of initial review.104 
 
 
97 See IA Admin. Code, ch. 45.9(6) (Jan. 18, 2017); MN Distributed Energy Resources Interconnection 
Process § 3.4 (MN DIP) (April 19, 2019); AZ Admin. Code § R14-2- 2620; IL Admin. Code, tit. 83, § 466.100(f). 
98 Kelsey Horowitz, et al. , An Overvi ew of Distributed Energy (DER) Interconnection: Current Practices and 
Emerging Solutions , National Renewable Energy Laboratory, p. 18 (Apr. 2019),  
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy19osti/72102.pdf . 
99 Id. 
100 Id. 
101 Id. at pp. 18 -19. 
102 Id. at p. 19.  
103 Id. 
104 See, e.g. , PG&E Rule 21 Tariff, §§ F.2.a (“For Interconnection Requests that fail Initial Review, Distribution 
Provider shall provide  . . . the option to either attend an Initial Review results meeting or proceed directly to 
Supplemental Review.” (emphasis added)), F.2.b (documenting procedures of Initial Review results meeting 
that require Supplemental Review unless either (a) the utility and applicant come to an agreement or (b) the 
applicant opts out of Supplemental Review); NStar Electric Company d/b/a Eversource Energy (“Eversource 
Energy”), Standards for Interconnection of Distributed Generation (“Eversource Energy Interconnection 
Tariff”), § 3.3(c) (providing that upon failure of initial review, “the Company will provide  a Supplemental 
Review Agreement” and that upon execution of the agreement, “the Company will conduct  the review 
within 20 Business days” (emphasis added)) (Sept. 1 5, 2021), 
https://www.eversource.com/content/docs/default-source/rates- tariffs/ma -electric/55 -tariff-
ma.pdf?sfvrsn=8582c462_8 . 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
45  
As minimum load data become more available, some states are also moving toward 
adopting 100% of minimum load as the threshold in their initial review screens (in place of 
the 15% of peak load screen) , with utility support. For example, Minneso ta and Montana 
have modified their procedures to allow projects to pass the penetration screen if they do 
not exceed 100% of the annual minimum load on the line section.105 This provides a much 
more accurate assessment of the proposed project’s likelihood to cause reverse power  
flow on the circuit.  Similarly, the Illinois Commerce Commission recently recommended 
that the interconnection rules require evaluation of the penetration screen using min imum 
load data where the data are available, and that after December 31, 2023, the utilities must use minimum load data  (the rulemaking process is still underway) .
106 Even with this revision 
to the penetration screen, however, Supplemental Review remains useful because it can help evaluate a project’s impact and potentially avoid unnecessary study where other screens are failed, too.  
 
d. Recommendation  
IREC recommend s that Maine adopt a mandatory and defined Supplemental 
Review as a replacement for Additional Review. Specifically, we recommend (1) that Maine 
adopt provisions requiring the utilities to offer applicants who fail initial screening the option to proceed wi th Supplemental Review instead of going on to Level 4 detailed study  
(applicants should have the option to proceed to detailed study directly if they choose) , 
and (2) that Maine adopt the Supplemental Review process outlined above, which adds three new screens: the 100% of minimum load screen, the voltage regulation screen, and the safety and reliability screen.  
 We also recommend that Maine adopt a flat fee for Supplemental Review rather 
than having utilities bill for actual costs. We make no recommendatio n on the amount of 
 
105 MN DIP, § 3.2.1.2; MT Admin. Rules § 38.5.8410(2)(a)(ii). We note that Montana’s Rules allow the utility to 
choose between applying the 15% of peak load or 100% of minimum load measure. IREC recommends that 
where 100% of minimum load data are available, the utility be required to use that measure because it is 
more accurate. 
106 IL Commerce Comm., Dkt. 20 -0700, Amendment of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 466 and 83 Ill. Adm. Code 467, 
Second Notice Order, p. 86 (Aug. 12, 2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
46  
the fee, but recommend that the Commission adopt a reasonable fee based on the typical 
cost to utilities for performing Supplemental Review.107 A flat fee better achieves the goals 
of facilitating interconnection of small projects than billing for actual costs because it is more time efficient, and thus more consistent with expedited review of low risk projects.  
Billing for actual costs requires the utility to make a project -by-project determination of 
what the costs will be  and to conduct  a process of either seeking additional payment or 
reimbursing excess deposit costs, which ultimately will delay project review.  The flat fee 
could be evaluated at regular intervals against the actual costs required to perform Supplemental Review and adjusted accordingly. 
 Supplemental Review has now been widely adopted in multiple states since it was 
first introduced in California, and the data show that states have benefited from its adoption.  Quarterly reports filed by utilities in California, for example, reveal that Fast Track 
review failures occur most commonly because of the penetration screen.
108 And of those 
projects that failed, more than 35% subsequently passed Supplemental Review.109 The 
process thus achieves the outcome of reducing unnecessary study of a significant number of small projects. It has allowed utilities to more quickly connect Level 2 facilities to the 
distribution grid at much lower cost than if the facilities were forced into Level 4 detailed review. And it has led to more transparent and predictable procedures while giving utilities 
the flexibility to ensure safe and reliable interconnection. 
 The Commission may also want to consider revising Screen 7(A) to look at 100% of 
minimum load, where available (which would save the extra step of supplemental review in some cases). Both utilities have  indicated that they have at least some minimum load 
 
107 In California, the utilities charge a flat fee of $2,500 for non- net energy metering projects and net 
metering projects greater than 1 MW. E.g., PG&E Rule 21 Tariff, § E.2.c . In Massachusetts, the fee is fixed at 
$150 per engineering hour spent conducting Supplemental Review with a maximum fee of $4,500 (30 
engineering hours). E.g., Eversource Energy Interconnection Tariff , Table 6 .  
108 See, e.g. , SCE, Southern California Edison Rule 21 Reporting for Third Quarter 2021, p. 2 (Q3 2021), 
https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/ -/media/cpuc-website/divisions/energy-division/documents/rule21/quarterly- iou-
interc onnection-data-reports/sce/3 -sce-q3-quarterly- rule-21-data-report-2021.pdf  (showing most common 
failure to be Screen M—California’s penetration screen). 
109 See id.  at pp. 2 -3 (showing that of the 156 projects that failed initial screening, 78 subsequently 
requested Supplemental Review, and of those 58 passed Supplemental Review).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
47  
data available.110 Because these data appear readily available to the utilities, the 
Commission could consider a rule like the one recommended by the Commission in Illinois, 
where Screen 7(A) must be evaluated based  on minimum load if such data are available. 
 
7. Issue : Utility technical requirements for interconnection may not 
reflect best practices and thus  may unnecessarily increase DER 
interconnection costs . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
While Maine’s interconnection procedures establish some technical screening 
criteria, they are generally silent on specific technical requirements for interconnection.  
This leaves to the utilities’ discretion what technical standards must be satisfied and what upgrades may be required before a project can interconnect. While this practice  reflects 
the utilities’ ultimate responsibility for the safety and reliability of their distribution grids, the Commission retains general oversight over utilities’ implem entation of the 
interconnection process, including the authority to ensure that technical requirements —
and their associated costs— imposed on interconnection customers are reasonable.
111 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
During IREC’s interviews with Maine DER developers, IREC learned of a number of 
technical requirements that the utilities have imposed on small DER that warrant  technical 
review and Commission oversight to ensure they reflect best utility practices in pursuit of 
safety and reliability. We note that the majority of these concerns were raised regarding 
Versant’s technical requirements, and not CMP’s. While this could have been a result of 
the interview process (and where developers were more likely to work), it does appear 
that Vers ant’s practices may be more conservative than CMP’s, which highlights the 
potential need for review to ensure best practices. We discuss five of those technical 
 
110 IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 2021); IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 
2021).  
111 See ME Rev. Stat. tit. 35 -A, §§ 104, 111; Resolve 2007, ch. 183; P.L. 2019, ch. 478.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
48  
requirements here and explain why they may warrant Commission review of the utilities’ 
technica l practices. 
 
i. Versant’s single-phase capacity limit of 25 kW 
Currently, Versant Power limits single-phase interconnection to DERs of 25 kW or 
less.112 Versant was not able to explain to IREC why it has this flat limit, and IREC has been  
unable to identify a possible justification for it . It is possible that very large single -phase 
installations could present voltage unbalance issues, but the size of a DER that would 
present this risk would be much larger than 25 kW . This is an example of  a technical limit 
that may be overly conservative and lack technical backing and thus benefit from review 
and direction from the Commission . 
 
ii. Under -Frequency Load Shedding planning 
requirements.  
ReVision Energy noted that Versant has recently required som e relatively small 
projects, on the order of 200 kW , to pay for circuit reconfiguration —moving existing 
equipment from one point on the distribution circuit to another— in order to interconnect.113 
They were told these reconfigurations are required due to the circuits being designated for Under-Frequency Load Shedding (“UFLS”). UFLS is a method of balancing load when 
generation output is too low under contingency conditions on the bulk electric system . For 
example, a large generator or transmission line that fails could quickly cause generation 
to be lower than load demand, reducing the frequency of the system below 60 Hertz , 
which can cause equipment to misoperate or lead to brownouts or blackout . Befor e other 
generation can ramp up or be restored, the utility must  bring frequency back towards 
nominal.  Shutting off distribution circuits or parts of circuits via breakers, reclosers, or other 
sectionalizing devices can decrease the load demand on the syste m and allow a utility to 
achieve frequency regulation .  
 
 
112 IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 2021). 
113 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Dec. 3, 2021). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
49  
 However, with the addition of DER, the reduction of load necessary during an UFLS 
event may not be achieved to the level needed if generating DER is shed on the circuit 
along with load.  This creates a planning dilemma  where the utility must plan  to ensure 
sufficient load is tripped while keeping as many DER connected as possible.  
Interconnect ing DER could trigger the need to re -evaluate and potentially reconfigure 
existing UFLS feeders to ensure sufficient load reduction, though it is unclear to IREC under 
what rules or ISO-NE guidance this evaluation should be done .  
 
As evidenced from the fact that Versant has  started to specify changes to circuits 
in an attempt to maintain UFLS capability, it is likely necessary for the utilities, in 
cooperation with ISO -NE, to develop best practices for interconnecting DER  in the con text 
of UFLS, addressing both technical solutions as well as cost allocation for those solutions in the context of interconnection.  We note that the North American Electric Reliability 
Corporation (“ NERC ”) is currently working on guidance to help inform best practices for 
applying UFLS with DER. While best practices on this issue are still nascent , this is another 
issue that may be appropriate for the Commission to oversee . 
 
iii. Versant’s low-threshold recloser requirement  
Both CMP and Versant require protection via a recloser for DER  of certain sizes.  
The purpose of the recloser is to provide utility-specified protection that may operate independently of the inherent DER protection. Except in special circumstances, systems 
with UL 1741 certified invert ers have built -in protection tested by the certifying entity.  
Utilities around the country do require protection for larger systems similar to Versant and 
CMP. I t is generally viewed by utilities as an extra assurance that these systems will not  
negatively interact with the distribution system or other customers, although it  is debated 
whether this additional protection is needed even for larger systems. However, while CMP 
requires a recloser only for DER above 2 MW,
114 Versant requires the protection at 500 k W 
and reduces this threshold to 250 kW when multiple single -phase inverters are utilized in 
 
114 IREC Interview with C entral Maine P ower  (Dec. 7, 2021). However, we were  unable to confirm this in 
CMP’s “Transmission & Distribution Interconnection Requirements for Generation.” 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
50  
a three -phase configuration.115 The Commission may want to explore three different 
aspects of the recloser requirements to ensure there is sufficient technical justification for 
these thresholds .   
 First, reclosers are generally required for “larger” systems to provide utilities with 
assurance that the protection for those larger DER systems is reliable, which could have more significant impacts on the distribution system if they misoperate. However, Commission review of these requirements may be warranted because there is no specific DER size at which redundant protection with a recloser becomes necessary, and it thus 
may be imposing an unnecessary cost on projects.  
 Second , Versant ’s justification for treating DERs with single -phase inverters 
differently is that it believes additional three -phase protection  is needed , which is not 
provided for by single -phase units. However, rather  than requiring a recloser in this 
circumstance , an alternative solution may be to ensure that customers have the option of 
using three -phase inverters (with three -phase protection) for systems above 250 kW if they 
want to avoid the cost of the recloser.  This alternative should not generally be  considered 
a burden on the DER  developer. Because three -phase inverters (with three -phase 
protection) are available for systems sizes above 250 kW, the project developer could specify these even if “distributed” plant designs are desired, rather than specifying single -
phase units that would require additional protection . Thus, the developer could avoid 
Versant’s recloser requirement at the lower threshold by simply using three -phase 
inverters when designing a “distributed” plant . Thus, while ensuring that sufficient 
protection is in place is reasonable , the Commission may want to ensure the appropriate 
options are available to address the protection concerns. 
 Finally, IREC has identified no specific difference between centralized inverters 
and distributed three -phase string inverters that would call for different needs for  backup 
protection. Both styles of three -phase inverter offer the same protection capabilities. In 
 
115 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 
2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
51  
both instances, impedance between the Point of Interconnection, or POI ( referred to as 
Point of Common Coupling, “PCC, ” in IEEE 1547 parlance) and point of DER connection 
(“POC ”) can impact voltage detection and tripping. Further, IEEE 1547 -2018 delineates 
where the Reference Point of Applicability ( “RPA”) should be chosen for proper voltage 
detection and general compliance with other 1547 requirements.  Thus, as IEEE 1547 -2018 
is adopted, it may be preferable  that reclosers only be applied for three -phase systems 
when the RPA is determined to be the PCC, as a minimum prerequisite.  
 
iv. Versant’s grounding transformer requireme nt for 
small projects  
Some developers expressed concern that  Versant requires grounding transformers 
for at least some Level 2 projects.116 For small projects, the  cost to install grounding 
transformers could be a “project killer,” and in some cases, appropriately sized grounding 
transformers may not even be available for small projects. G rounding measures, typically 
known as “supplemental grounding ,” are practiced in certain jurisdictions117 and may be 
warranted in some cases (such as where the connected load is largely ungrounded, e.g., 
such as delta connections or phase -to-phase connections). However, a requirement that 
DER install supplemental grounding should be subject to further review for technical 
necessity. 
 This is a topic that requires further exploration to fully understand the need of 
supplemental grounding in the first place, for inverter-based DER  of any size . For example, 
IEEE C62.92.6 Guide for Application of Neutral Grounding in Electrical Utility Systems, Part VI - Systems Supplied by Current -Regulated Sources describes the differences in inverter 
response to ground faults compared to rotating machines. Grounding transformers may 
be unnecessary for inverter-based DER and furthermore may degrade utility fault detectio n. Because effective grounding for inverters is an area of growing knowledge, this 
 
116 IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021).  
117 See, e.g. , Xcel Energy, Technical Specifications Manual (TSM) , p. 16 (May 1, 2020) (requiring grounding 
transformers for DER greater than 100 kW) , https://www.xcelenergy.com/staticfiles/xe -
responsive/Working%20With%20Us/How%20to%20Interconnect/MN-
Techinical%20Specifications%20Manual.pdf . 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
52  
is a natural topic for review by a Commission -overseen stakeholder group. Also, because 
optional testing for inverters in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 can support knowledge in this regard, this 
topic could be rolled into 1547-2018 adoption efforts.118 
 
v. SCADA requirements for smaller DER  
While many utilities across the country, including CMP, require Supervisory Control 
and Data Acquisition (“SCADA ”) monitoring for DERs of  1 MW or greater , Versant requires 
SCADA for DER over  500 kW threshold in its Maine Public District.119 Versant shared with 
IREC  that it may drop this threshold to 100 kW for  aggregations of DERs in light of FERC 
Order 2222 . Other utilities across the country have noted the potential need to reduce the 
threshold for monitoring to increase situational awareness.120 However, current SCADA 
technologies are likely to be cost -prohibitive for smaller DER.  
 
The burden of high -cost SCADA monitoring for small DER could be avoided by 
increasing communication capabilities of smaller DER via IEEE 1547 -2018’s standardized 
local DER communications interface and through DER aggregators. In addition to adopting 
IEEE 1547- 2018, interconnection requirements that require specific communication 
capabilities (e.g., physical port, protocol, etc.) could be considered for future inclusion in the Procedures or utility requirements handbook s. The standardized communications 
capabilities provided for by 1547 could potentially decrease deployment costs for larger systems as well, so the Commission may want to explore monitoring requirements on the whole .  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions A re Doing  
Some states have developed Commission -man dated and -overseen stakeholder 
technical working groups to review and work through technical issues like those discussed 
 
118 See Section II.B.4  of this Report, below.  
119 Email from David Norman (Versant) to Brian Lydic (IREC) (Dec. 30, 2021).  
120 See, e.g. , CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R17-07-007, Order Instituting Rulemaking to Consider 
Streamlining Interconnection of Distributed Energy Resources and Improvements to Rule 21, Working 
Group One Final Report, pp. 76 -77 (Mar. 15, 2018). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
53  
above.  The working groups are intended to provide for a collaborative process that can 
address technical interconnection issues as they arise. Because interconnection of DER is 
an evolving issue, these states have found it useful to have a group of stakeholders , 
including utilities, DER developers , and other stakeholders with technical expertise on the 
issues, convened that can nimbly address and vet changes to how to interconnections are 
handled in a transparent and timely manner. S tates —including Massachusetts, California, 
and New York —have successfully deployed on these technical working groups.121 
 
d. Recommendation  
The fact that developers have raised concerns with some of the utility technical 
requirements discussed above —and that IREC has not been able to ascertain clear 
justification for some of the practices— indicates that a technical working group may be 
useful in Maine. A technical working g roup governed by a clear process will help avoid the 
adoption of unnecessary or disruptive technical requirements, while also still allowing 
utilities to adapt to changing circumstances.  
 
Further, a technical working g roup will be well-po sitioned to address adoption of 
revised IEEE 1547 (see Section II.B.4  below ) and assist the Commission in adopting the 
standards in a timely fashion. Similarly, the g roup can grapple with evolving issues 
regarding energy storage and other emerging technologies discussed in this report , to 
ensure these new technologies are appropriately integrated into interconnections in Maine .  
 If adopted, i t is important for the Commission to ensure the technical working group 
has a clear process and expectations for conducting its work. To ensure transparency, 
IREC recommends that the Commission provide clear direction for the establishment of 
this technical working group and how it will function. For example, the Commission may 
 
121 Materials from the Massachusetts Technical Standards Review Group are available here: 
https://sites.google.com/site/massdgic/home/inte rconnection/technical -standards- review -group ; New York 
has a policy and technical working group, information about them can be accessed here: 
http://www3.dps.ny.gov/W/PSCWeb.nsf/All/DCF68EFCA391AD6085257687006F396B?OpenDocument ; 
California also recently launched a new interconnection discussion forum along with the standing Smart 
Inverter Working Group, links to each group’s materials can be found here: http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/Rule21/ .   
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
54  
want to determine who participates in the working group, how topics are “voted” on , and 
what happens when consensus is not achieved (i.e., how and when topics can then be 
brought to the Commission).  It may want to designate a facilitator  (keeping in mind that 
staff may be unable to facilitate w here ex parte concerns related to individual complaints 
might arise ). IREC recommends the meetings be open to the public, but that a core and 
balanced group of members be selected to help move conversations forward, determine 
agendas and other tasks.  Further, we recommend that  the group’s meetings be publicly 
noticed and its agenda and meeting minutes be filed in a docket or otherwise publicly posted. This ensures both the Commission and the public and stakeholders who are not a 
part of the group remain aware of the group’s decisions and recommendations. In 
considering how to formulate the working group the Commission can look to how the groups have been structured in other states as examples.  
 Technical working groups will result in some costs to the Commission, in the form 
of staff time for oversight, and will place additional obligations on stakeholders to participate. However, the economic impact overall is likely to be beneficial in the form of increased efficiency of interconnection and a reductio n in the number of disputes between 
developers and utilities. 
 
8. Issue : Information provided on interconnection screen failures 
may be insufficient to inform customers about next steps . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Prior to the Commission’s December 2021 Order in Docket 2021 -00167, Maine’s 
Interconnection Procedures required that upon failure of one or more of the initial screens, “the T&D Utility shall provide the Applicant with detailed information on the reason or reasons for failure.”
122 Despit e the directive to provide “detailed information,” the former 
procedures did not expressly state the level of detail required. With its December 2021 
Order, the Commission modified the Procedures to require utilities to provide specific 
 
122 Former Chapter 324, § 9(D) (effective March 15, 2020). The same requirement applied for Level 2 and 3 
screen failures. See Former Chapter 324, §§ 10(D), 11(D).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
55  
information when reporting screen failures.123 In addition to “detailed information on the 
reason or reasons for failure,” the Procedures now require utilities to provide “the utility’s 
definition of the line section and identification of the automatic sectionalizing device that 
bounds the line section; … aggregated generation on the line section; and … a good faith estimate of the costs of additional review.”
124 
 Typical failure reports issued by both Versant and CMP prior to the Commission’s 
December 2021 Order list each of the initial review screens and indicate whether the screen passed or failed.
125 In addition to the pass/fail list, Versant’s default report includes 
a short description of the reason for failure.  For example, a S creen 7(A) failure might state: 
“Proposed generation is greater than 15% of the line section’s annual peak load at the closest automatic sectionalizing device.”
126 Upon further request by an applicant, Versant 
has provided additional information showing loads, aggregated generation, and other screen calculations.
127  
 CMP’s default report provides some information on the calculation that led to the 
screen passing or failing. For example, a Screen 7(A) failure will include the “Total 
Generation” (which includes the proposed project) and the “Annual Peak” load on the line segment.
128 The applicant can then do the math to understand how CMP determined that 
the screen failed. Even here, however, developers report that they regularly need to follow  
up for more detailed explanations of the technical reasoning behind a screen failure.129 For 
example, after one such S creen 7(A) failure, ReVision Energy required clarification from 
CMP on how it calculated “aggregate generation” and whether the peak load was 
 
123 Dkt. 2021 -0016 7, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 9 (Dec. 21, 2021). 
124 Chapter 324, §§ 9(D), 10(D), 11(D). 
125 See Appendix A: Versant Power and CMP Screen Failure Reports.  
126 Appendix A: Versant Power Screen Failure Report.  
127 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Dec. 29, 2021); see also  Appendix B: Versant Power Detailed 
Screen Failure Report.  
128 Appendix A: CMP Screen Failure Report.  
129 IREC Interview with Maine Solar Solutions  (Nov. 18, 2021); IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Dec. 29, 
2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
56  
measured at the substation  for the entire circuit before ReVision could understand the 
reason for the failure.130  
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
Project applicants have two choices when their project fails initial screening. They 
can modify the project in some way to allow it to pass the initial screens, which 
stakeholders report frequently occurs through negotiation between the utilities and applicants to identify a “workable” project.
131 Or they can pay for Additional Review or Level 
4 detailed study to see what system upgrades may be necessary to allow the project to connect to the grid. For some small projects, any upgrade costs (or even study costs)  may 
render the project uneconomic, while others may be able to afford some level of 
distribution upgrades.
132 And for those projects that can afford to pay for Additional Review  
or study, applicants need some way to assess whether this review would likely result in an affordable Interconnection Agreement.
133 
 Even after the Commission’s December 2021 Order, the screening results provided 
by utilities likely will not include enough information to allow project applicants to make more informed decisions about how they should proceed in all cases. To make these 
decisions, applicants require utilities to identify the threshold or limitation  causing the 
failure of a screen.   
 The new requirements to provide information regarding Aggregated Generation on 
the line segment, the utility’s definition of the line section, and the specific automatic sectionalizing device that bounds the line section will help applicants better understand the reason behind S creen 7(A) failures. However, additional information would better allow 
 
130 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Dec. 29, 2021).  
131 IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021); IREC Interview with Sundog Solar (Nov. 23, 2021); 
IREC Interview with Re Vision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021). 
132 See discussion supra , Section II.A.1 . 
133 See Dkt. 2021 -00167, ReVision Energy Initial Comments, p. 13  (Aug. 11, 2021) . Because most applicants 
cannot afford costly system upgrades, they would like to avoid having to pay for Additional Review or 
detailed study if that review likely would conclude that system upgrades are required. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
57  
project applicants to make fully informed decisions on how to proceed after any screen is 
failed.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Similar to Maine’s Procedures prior to the Commission’s December 2021 Order, 
several states provide only general guidelines that leave significant discretion to the utility in terms of how much information is provided.
134 This can result in different approaches 
from different utilities and varying levels of information provided to the customer. 
 More recent proposals to update interconnection procedures are intended to give 
more specific guidance on the contents of screen -failure reports so that project applicants 
can make informed decisions on how best to proceed.  In Illinois, for example, the Illinois 
Commerce Commission  has issued a draft order to  adopt interconnection procedures that 
would require utilities to “provide, in writing, the specific screens that the application failed, including the technical reason for failure” as well as “information and detail about the specific system threshold or limitation causing the application to fail the screen.”
135 The 
Illinois Commission’s March 2021 order on the issue stated that “applicants should be given enough information to determine if a modification is possible that would allow  the 
failed screen to be passed.”
136 
 Likewise, in Massachusetts, stakeholders recently reached consensus on new 
language clarifying the reporting requirements for initial screen failures. The consensus 
revisions to that state’s interconnection tariff require utilities to provide, in writing, “the 
 
134 See, e.g.,  MD Code Regs. § 20.50.09.10.H (Upon fa ilure of Level 2 review, “ the utility shall provide the 
applicant written notification explaining its reasons for denying the interconnection request.”); NY SIR, § I.C 
Step (Utilities must “provide the technical reasons, data and analysis supporting the Pr eliminary Screening 
Analysis results in writing.”). 
135 IL Commerce Comm., Dkt. 20 -0700, Amendment of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 466 and 83 Ill. Adm. Code 467 (“IL 
Dkt. 20-0700”), Illinois Second Notice Order, Appx. A, § 466.100(b)(5)(B) (Mar . 2021).  After the Commission 
issued the Second Notice Order, the Illinois Legislature passed a law that required further revisions to the 
state’s interconnection procedures, and the Commission withdrew this order to issue a new one to add the 
new state law requirements. How ever, the Commission has not indicated any intent to change the 
recommendations in this original Second Notice Order.  
136 Id. at p. 99.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
58  
specific Screen(s) that the Application failed, including the technical reason for failure” and 
“information and detail about the specific system threshold or limitation causing the Appl ication to fail the Screen.”
137 
 
d. Recommendation  
We recommend that Maine modify its Interconnection Procedures to augment the 
Commission’s December 2021 Order by clarifying the level of detail required for every screen failure , not just failure of Screen 7(A ). The screen failure reports should contain 
sufficient detail to allow an applicant to determine (1) whether it could modify its project to 
pass initial screening, or (2) whether proceeding to Additional Review or Supplemental 
Review (if Maine  adopts IREC ’s recommendations in Section II.A.6 , above ) will likely result 
in an Interconnection Agreement.  If Maine adopts a Supplemental Review  process, similar 
requirements should apply to failure of the Supplemental Review screens. Fail ure reports 
for the Supplemental Review screens should contain sufficient detail to allow applicants to determine whether they could modify their projects to pass Supplemental Review.  
 Accordingly, we recommend that the State adopt language in its procedures similar 
to the language proposed in Illinois and Massachusetts. Further, the required screen failure 
report would be most helpful if developed with stakeholder input.  Thus, we suggest that 
the Commission establish a working group made up of the utilitie s, DER  developers, and 
other interested  stakeholders to create a standardized form for reporting screen failures 
(this could also be addressed by the technical working group discussed above) . This will 
allow the Commission to avoid an overly detailed reporting rule that could require later amendment as needs evolve. Instead, the rule could simply reference the Commission -
approved, standardized form.  
 As an example, the  following information may be useful for Screen 7(A) failures:  
1. DER Applicat ion Size (kW);  
 
137 MA Dept. Pub. Util., Dkt. 19 -55, Inquiry by the Department of Public Utilities on its own Motion into 
Distributed Generation Interconnection, Massachusetts Joint Stakeholders Consensus Revisions to the 
Standards for Interconnection of Distributed Generation Tariff, p. 14, § 3.3(e) (Feb. 26, 2020).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
59  
2. DER In -Service on Feeder (kW);  
3. DER Ahead in Queue138 (kW);  
4. Aggregated Generation (kW);  
5. 15% of Peak Load (or 100% of minimum load if that data is available) (kW);  
6. DER as a % of Peak Load (or minimum load if that data is available) (kW);  
7. Automa tic sectionalizing device that bounds the line segment /definition of 
line segment ; 
8. Passes screen (Yes or No).139 
 
The forthcoming U.S. Department of Energy funded Building A Technically Reliable 
Interconnection Evolution for Storage (“BATRIES”) report, discussed in Section II.A.9.d, below, will contain detailed recommendations for each of the standard screens and could be used to guide the discussions in the rulemaking docket.  
 
9. Issue: Maine’s Procedures are not prepared to accommodate the unique features and capabilities of energy storage systems.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures and Practices  
The interconnection procedures in Maine currently contain no mention of energy 
storage and lack important technical and process details associated with how the unique 
features and benefits of energy storage systems will be reviewed. To date, the Maine utilities have indicated that they are not yet seeing many applications to interconnect energy storage systems under Levels 1 and 2 .
140 This stands in stark contrast to other parts 
of the country, which are seeing rapid growth in both front of the meter and behind the 
 
138 Projects “Ahead in Queue” include only those projects ahead in the queue that have paid 100% of 
interconnection-related costs attributable to them, including costs for studies, distribution facilities, system 
upgrades, metering, and other items for which the ICGF has cost responsibility.  
139 ReVision Energy asks that failure reports also include the dates when the maximum and minimum load 
are experienced on the line section. Dkt. 2021 -00167, ReVision Energy Initial Comments, p. 13  (Aug. 11, 
2021) . This information seems reasonable to include where it is available, but we recommend f urther 
discussion among members of the proposed working group.  
140 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 
2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Jan. 19, 2022).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
60  
meter energy storage.141 However, it is likely that Maine will soon begin to see more energy 
storage interconnection applications even for smaller projects. The Governor signed 
legislation in June of 2021 adopting ambitious energy storage procurement goals for the state.
142 In addition, technology costs continue to drop, and as penetration levels for other 
DERs grow in the state, it is likely the time -shifting benefits of energy storage will drive 
more interest.  
 The primary factor that needs to be taken into account in evaluating energy storage 
for interconnection is the controllable nature of the technology, which can allow different export amounts, and at different times, in a way not seen with traditional generators. Section 11 of the Maine Procedures sets forth a process for evaluating non -exporting 
generators. Section 11(B) provides limited detail on what types of export control methods are acceptable for use, simply stating that applicants “must use reverse power relays or otherwise ensure no export to the T & D Distribution System.” Section 11 indicates that non -
export systems must pass the screens in Section 7 and that interconnections to distribution networks must pass “applicable” screens under Section 8. The screens in Sections 7 and 8 treat non -expor t facilities the same as facilities that export their entire output. There is 
no direct acknowlegement of a limited export project or how one would be evaluated.  
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
Interconnection procedures that do not address the unique capabilit ies of energy 
storage tend to hamper both the deployment of energy storage and realization of the benefits that it can offer to customers and the grid. Although the utilities and developers interviewed in Maine did not identify particular challenges for energy storage, it is likely 
 
141 See, e.g. , Jason Plautz, Global Energy Storage Set to Nearly Triple in 2021: Wood Mackenzie Forecast , 
Utility Dive (Oct. 8, 2021), https://www.utilit ydive.com/news/global-energy- storage -set-to-nearly- triple -in-
2021 -wood -mackenzie -forecast/607905/  (forecasting substantial and rapid growth in energy storage in 
diverse state markets, “eventually building to a cumulative capacity just shy of 400 GWh by 2030”).   
142 2021 ME Legis. Serv. Ch. 298 (S.P. 213 – L.D. 528) (adopting a goal of 300 MW by 2025 and 400 by 
2030 and setting forth various steps that are likely to create more market opportunities for storage); see 
Energy Storage, State of Maine Governor’s Energy Office, 
https://www.maine.gov/energy/initiatives/renewable-energy/energy- storage  (“A goal of 400 megawatts of 
energy storage represents about 20% of Maine’s peak electric demand in 2020, making these goals some 
of the most ambitious in the nation. As of 2021 there are about 50 megawatts of energy storage operating in the state.”).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
61  
this is due more to a lack of experience than evidence that the procedures are well 
equipped to facilitate interconnection of this flexible resource. In order to facilitate an efficient interconnection process for energy storage that recognizes its unique capabilities, the interconnection procedures in Maine will need to include additional guidance into how export -controlled projects should be evaluated.   
 The procedures in Maine currently have two primary weaknesses related to e nergy 
storage. First, the procedures do not adequately define what methods of export control are acceptable for use. This ambiguity can increase the costs of interconnection because customers do not know what methods will be accepted prior to submitting an  
interconnection application, which may be subject to multiple rounds of back and forth with the utility if methods are not clearly defined.  
 Second, while the procedures provide some limited recognition of non -export 
projects, they do not recognize the concept of a limited -export project and do not 
meaningfully take into account the different characteristics of these two kinds of systems. Appropriately treating limited-export systems can be particularly important when it comes to energy storage that is co -located with other resources, like solar. Without proper 
recognition of export control schemes, and the concept of a limited- export system, utilities 
generally assume that a co -located storage system will export its full capacity at the same 
time as the onsite solar system. If appropriate export controls are included in the design, this assumption will result in significant over-estimation of the impacts of the system. As currently drafted, the interconnection screens and study processes could lead to this result. The procedures thus could be revised to ensure that certain electrical impacts are evaluated differently when a project is controlling export in a manner that has been shown to be safe and reliable. This would include, in particular, amending the interconnection screens to reflect the use of export controls and making similar changes regarding expectations in the study process. 
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
62  
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Interconnection procedures across the United States are being updated to better 
define the process for interconnecting energy storage systems. States are typically 
tackling a consistent set of interrelated issues.  
 
First, states are ensuring that their procedures are clearly applicable to energy 
storage by including the technology in the definition of eligible “generators” and updating other key terms to be inclusive of energy storage.
143 This includes also updating associated 
interconnection application forms and agreements to be inclusive of energy storage.  
 Second, states are adding, or refining, their procedures to clearly define what 
methods of export control are acceptable for use by energy storage and other DERs.
144 
While reverse power relays (as identified in Section 11 of Maine’s procedures) can be used by energy storage systems, they tend to be too costly for smaller energy storage projects and may also not offer the same functionality as newer methods. In particu lar, Power 
Control Systems (“PCS”) are becoming the preferred method for controlling export, and states are thus working to incorporate requirements for the use of certified PCS.  
 Third, following from these steps, states are recognizing the concept of a “limited” 
export system in addition to non -export systems. Limited-export systems are those that 
control export to some non -zero value (i.e., a 1 MW solar + storage facility, but which is 
designed to only be capable of exporting 500 kW).
145  
 Finally, some states are revising the interconnection screens and eligibility limits to 
recognize that when projects use export control methods that have been determined to 
 
143 MD Code Regs. § 20.50.09.02. B(14); DC  Mun. R egs. § 4099; MN  Pub. Util. Comm., State of Minnesota 
Technical Interconnection and Interoperability Requirements (TIIR) , p. 11 (Jan. 22, 2020) ; NV Pub. Util. 
Comm., Dkt . 17-06f014, NV Power Co. Rule 15  (“NV Power Co. R. 15”)  § B; NY SIR § III . 
144 PG&E Rule 21 Tariff § G.1.i; NV Power Co. R. 15 § I.4.b; Hawaiian Elec. Co., Rule No. 22: Customer Self -
Supply (“H awaiian  Elec. Rule 22”) Appendix II, pp. 44B -1–44B- 2 (Feb. 5, 2018), 
https://www.hawaiianelectric.com/documents/billing_and_payment/rates/hawaiian_electric_rules/22.pdf . 
145 AZ Admin. Code § R14-2- 2603(C) -(E); Hawaiian Elec. Rule 22 , Appx.  II; MD Code Regs. § 20.50.09.06 .O; 
NV Power Co. R. 15 § I.4(b). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
63  
be safe and reliable, their electrical impacts are reduced in some areas.146 Specifically, 
screens such as those in Maine that evaluate “aggregate generating capacity” are being 
revised to recognize that for certain types of impacts, the export capacity, not the full 
nameplate of a project, should be included. Included in this is identification of how any inadvertent export will be evaluated. The expectations regarding consideration of export controls should be included in the Level 4 process as well.  
 
d. Recommendation  
We recommend that Maine address the interconnection of energy storage in the 
forthcomi ng proceeding. The steps, described above, that states are taking to ensure that 
interconnection procedures safely and reliably evaluate energy storage projects are all likely to be important in the coming years as Maine seeks to meet its energy storage procurement targets and use energy storage to benefit the grid and customers. A full explanation of the necessary changes will not be detailed here, but as part of the U.S. Department of Energy funded BATRIES project, IREC and its partners, including the California Solar and Storage Association; Electric Power Research Institute; Energy Storage Association; the New Hampshire Electric Cooperative; PacifiCorp; Solar Energy Industries Association; and Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger, LLP, will be releasing a major report in March of 2022 that will have detailed recommendations and proposed rule language for the topics addressed above. We recommend that Maine review and consider adopting the recommendations in the BATRIES report.
147   
 
10. Issue : Construction of i nterconnection upgrades may not be 
occurring in a timely manner, resulting in interconnection delays . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Maine’s interconnection procedures generally provide timelines for both the utility 
and an applicant to complete individual steps of the interconnection process, with a few 
 
146 AZ Admin. Code § R14-2-2615(C), (E); MD Code Regs. § 20.50.09.06 .A-.B; NV Power Co. R. 15 § I-E. 
147 More information is available at https://irecusa.org/programs/batries -storage -interconnection/ .  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
64  
exceptions . As for compliance with these timelines, the data currently tracked by the 
utilities are limited and inconsistent across CMP and Versant , so a complete picture of 
timeline compliance cannot be drawn at this time.148 DER developers interviewed for this 
report reported that Level 1 applications are usually processed quickly and within 
established timelines, but the process slows considerably if an upgrade is required, 
extending  from four to ten months beyond the expected timeline.149 CMP recognized in an 
interview that it is aware that there have been delays in field planning appointments for transformer upgrades and reported that it is working internally to improve the issue.
150 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
The experienced delays and lack of process in the procedures or interconnection 
agreement regarding construction timeline  expectations indicates that Maine could benefit 
from more structure around the distribution upgrade planning and construction process.  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
While California does not face issues regarding the cost of distribution upgrades for 
small projects due to its upgrade fee waiver for those projects,151 there has still been 
frustratio n over delays in their construction. S takeholders and the California P ublic Utilities 
Commission recently considered the issue of construction delays for projects, including 
smaller projects. In 2020, the CPUC  adopted a consensus proposal from utilities, 
developers, and other stakeholders to establish timelines for design and construction of any interconnection-related distribution upgrades and adopted a proposal by developers 
to establish shorter  timelines for design and installation of net generation output meters.
152  
 
148 For a discussion of the benefits of data tracking and reporting requirements, see Section II.B.2. 
149 IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021); IREC Interview with Main e Solar Solutions (Nov. 
18, 2021); IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021).  
150 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021).  
151 See Section II.A.1.c  of this report.  
152 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt . R.17 -07-007, Order Instituting Rulemaking to Consider Streamlining 
Interconnection of Distributed Energy Resources and Improvements to Rule 21, Decision D.20 -09-035, 
Decision Adopting Recommendations from Working Groups Two, Three, and Subgroup, pp. 86, 92-93 
(Sept. 24, 2020).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
65  
In the same order, the C PUC adopted reporting requirements regarding upgrade design 
and construction times.153 
 
d. Recommendation  
Below, in Section II.B.2 , IREC recommends that the Commission adopt regular 
reporting for small projects so the Commission can track how the interconnection process 
is going. To address the issue of construction delays for small projects, IREC recommends 
that the Commission likewise require reporting on how long design and construction of distribution upgrades takes for each application. The Commission could then review these 
data after a peri od of time (six months or a year) and determine whether further steps are 
necessary to ensure timely interconnection of small projects. It could consider requiring a 
construction schedule be included in the interconnection agreement and that the utilities be required to track how many times that schedule is exceeded. While speeding up 
construction is likely the primary goal of applicants, at the very least clear expectations can be quite helpful.  
 If the data show that distribution upgrades for small projects take an unreasonable 
amount of time to complete, the Commission could then consider implementing specific timelines for upgrades or require that enforceable construction timelines be established by mutual agreement in a contract between the utility and applicant. Or, if upgrades are 
constructed under the cost waiver program discussed in Section II.A.1.d, above, the Commission could use the reports to track whether utilities are generally meeting obligations to streamline interconnection of small projects. Reporting will add some 
administrative costs for the utilities. 
 
 
153 Id. at pp. 84- 86, 92 -94. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
66  
11. Issue : Dispute resolution procedures may need improvement to 
efficiently and fairly resolve disputes . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Section 15 of Maine’s Small Generator Interconnection Procedures sets forth the 
current three -step process for resolving interconnection disputes.154 If a dispute arises 
between an applicant and a utility, representatives for each side with sufficient binding 
authority must first attempt in good faith to resolve the dispute privately.155 If those 
negotiations prove unsuccessful, the parties may engage in informal dispute resolution with Commission staff.
156 Finally, if either party is unsatisfied with Commission staff’s 
attempt to resolve the dispute informally, they may submit a formal request to the Commission for an adjudicatory proceeding.
157 Procedures for formal adjudicatory 
proceedings are governed by the Commission’s Procedures of Practice and Procedure.158 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
Interviews with utilities and developers reveal that the time and cost required to 
resolve disputes under the current process are a significant concern. The current process 
is resource intensive.159 Legal assistance has been required to resolve some disputes,160 
which can drive up costs for all of the parties involved, including ratepayers.161 Small  
 
154 Past and ongoing disputes have involved a wide range of issues, including disagreement over the 
interpretation of specific terms in the rules, the results of pre -application reports, the proper resolutio n of 
transient voltage concerns, failures of Screen 7(A), and more. IREC Interview with Sundog Solar (Nov. 23, 
2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 2021); IREC Interview with Maine Solar Solutions (Nov. 18, 2021).  
155 Chapter 324, § 15(A).  
156 Id. § 15(B). 
157 Id. § 15(C).  
158 See generally ME Code R. § 65- 407, ch. 110 (“Chapter 110”).  
159 IREC Interview Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021); IREC Interview with Sundog Solar (Nov. 23, 2021); 
IREC Interview with ReVision  Energy (Nov. 15, 2021); IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021). 
160 IREC Interview with Sundog Solar (Nov. 23, 2021); IREC  Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021).  
161 IREC Interview with Sundog Solar (Nov. 23, 2021); IREC Interview wit h Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 
2021). ReVision Energy reports that one of its disputes cost over $30,000 to resolve. IREC Interview with 
ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
67  
residential and commercial customers, in particular, may not have the resources to pursue 
legal help, and without such expertise, they may find it difficult to navigate the dispute 
resolution process.162 This is especially so if the dispute requires formal adjudication by the 
Commis sion, where trained legal expertise may be required.163 
 Another issue identified by both utilities and developers is that, despite provisions 
that encourage informal resolution prior to formal proceedings before the Commission, ongoing disputes often require formal proceedings anyway.
164 While disputes are rare in 
the context of the number of applications processed annually, when they do arise, both utilities and developers appear in agreement that a streamlined process would be beneficial. Also, utilities and developers have expressed concern that Commission staff 
has not been sufficiently resourced and that, in some instances, Commission staff did not have the appropriate technical expertise to resolve disputes informally.
165 We note that the 
rules do not give staff the authority to make a binding determination, and instead place the burden on staff to act as a mediator to encourage the parties to reach resolution. When  
disputes are not resolved by the parties informally, the only options is formal adjudica tion 
before the Commission. 
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
States such as Massachusetts and New York have added an Interconnection 
Ombudsperson to their interconnection dispute resolution processes with considerable success.
166 The Ombudsperson is a member of Commission staff and is tasked both with 
 
162 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021); IREC Interview with Maine Solar Solutions (Nov. 18, 
2021); IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 2021). 
163 The formal adjudicatory procedures typically require written briefs; involve live hearings with argument 
and testimony; and generally require knowledge of the evidentiary rules and pre- and post- decisional 
motion practice.  See generally Chapter 110, §§ 8 -11. 
164 IREC Interview with Versant Energy (Dec. 8, 2021); IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 
2021); IREC Interview with ReVision  Energy (Nov. 15, 2021).  
165 IREC Interview with Central Maine Power (Dec. 7, 2021); IREC Interview with Versant Power (Dec. 8, 
2021); IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021); IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 
2021).  
166 See, e.g. , Eversource Energy Interconnection Tariff, §§ 3.9(c), 9.1(b); MA Dept. Pub. Util., Interconnection 
Dispute Resolution Guidance, https://www.mass.gov/info -details/in terconnection-dispute- resolution -
(footnote continued on next page) 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
68  
facilitating specific disputes as well as monitoring the overall progress of every dispute. In 
so doing, the Ombudsperson helps track and facilitate the efficient and fair resolution of 
disputes informally, without tying up other staff resources or requiring formal adjudication before the Commission. Because of the technical nature of many disputes, it can be 
particularly helpful if the Ombudsperson has  technical expertise in interconnection-related 
matters and sufficient mediation skills to identify a fair resolution.  
 In addition to creating an Ombudsperson staff position, Massachusetts also has a 
process for resolving disputes through neutral mediators and technical experts.
167 Under 
this framework, the Massachusetts Commission has established a pre -qualified set of 
neutral mediators and technical experts.168 The parties select a mediator and, if necessary, 
a technical expert from the list and, with the help of these neutrals, attempt to resolve the dispute through non -binding arbitration.
169 If either party does not accept the neutral 
mediator’s recommendation, the dispute proceeds to formal adjudication proceedings before the Commission.
170 The Massachusetts dispute resolution framework also sets fort h 
strict timelines for various stages of the process.171 
 Similar to Massachusetts’s non -binding arbitration process, other states also 
engage outside technical experts to aid with dispute resolution. In California, for example, 
 
guidance; New York Interconnection , https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All -Programs/Programs/NY -
Sun/Contractors/Resources- for-Contractors/Interconnection  (“Ombudsman services are now available to 
provide coordination between DG applicants and utilities.”); NY Dept. Pub. Serv., Interconnection 
Ombudsman Effort, 
https://www3.dps.ny.gov/W/PSCWeb.nsf/All/DAF23BB7AC9AC53A85258050004C17B8?OpenDocument . 
167 See, e.g. , Eversource Energy Interconnection Tariff, § 9.2. 
168 E.g., id. § 9.2(a).  
169 E.g., id. § 9.2(a)- (g). 
170 E.g., id. § 9.2(j). 
171 See, e.g. , id. § 9.1(c) (fixing timelines for accepting ombudsperson’s proposed resolution), § 9.2(b) (setting 
deadline for selecting a neutral mediator and/or technical expert), § 9.2(e) (requiring mediation process to 
complete within 30 days). 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
69  
the CPUC has begun engaging technical experts as part of a “Dispute Resolution Panel” 
to help resolve disputes arising in the interconnection process.172 
 
d. Recommendation  
Many of the revisions to the Procedures recommended in this report should serve 
to reduce disputes overall. However, Maine would likely benefit from a revised dispute 
resolution process to rely on when disputes do  arise. The Massachusetts dispute 
resolution framework strikes a nice balance of giving the parties ample opportunity to resolve disputes privately, and with the help of qualified, neutral third parties, while also recognizing that a binding resolution through formal adjudication is sometimes necessary. The framework also establishes a process that gradually increases the level of formality and cost required to  resolve disputes.  
 We recommend that Maine adopt a similar three -phase process. We also 
recommend that Maine establish explicit timelines for completing each phase. These timelines will ensure efficient and timely resolution of disputes and also incentivize the parties to engage in each phase thoroughly before proceeding to the next phase.  
 The first phase —Private Negotiation —would incorporate aspects of Maine’s current 
procedures under Chapter 324, S ections 15(A) and 15(B). First, the parties would attempt 
to resolve the dispute privately without engaging Commission staff, similar to the procedure described in S ection 15(A).  If that fails, the parties would then engage 
Commission staff to help resolve the dispute. Here, we re commend that the Commission 
establish a formal Ombudsperson to help facilitate resolution. Creating a formal staff 
position will help address concerns expressed by both utilities and developers that staff may lack sufficient resources, and technical expertise in some cases, to facilitate resolution of disputes between the parties. The Ombudsperson would engage with the parties to 
 
172 See CA Pub. Util. Comm., Resolution ALJ -347, Exh. A (Oct. 12, 2017) (establishing an Expedited Dispute 
Resolution Panel that will include outside engineers engaged by the Commission to help facilitate fair and 
rapid resolution of disputes).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
70  
understand the nature of the dispute and recommend a solution. If either party does not 
accept the proposed solution, the dispute  would proceed to the next phase.   
 
The current timeline in S ection 15(A) of 8 calendar days to resolve the dispute 
privately prior to engaging Commission staff (i.e., the Ombudsperson) seems reasonable and is consistent with what other states have established.
173 We recommend that the 
Ombudsperson be required to submit a proposed resolution to the parties within 15 business days of receiving a request for help, and that the parties be given 5 business days to accept or reject the proposal. This would set an  outside limit for the first phase of 
the dispute resolution process at approximately 5 to 6 weeks (20 business days + 8 
calendar days). 
 If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute through private negotiation, the 
Commission will need to decide wheth er to require  that the parties engage in mediation 
and non -binding arbitration as the second phase of the process. This additional step has 
the benefit of potentially resolving more issues prior to bringing them to the Commission, but it can also result in  further costly process for small projects that may not be warranted 
in cases where the parties are unable to find resolution.  If it wants to adopt this sort of process, similar to the process in Massachusetts, the Commission could pre-establish a list of neutral, third-party mediators and technical experts.  The parties would be required to 
select a mediator and technical expert (if necessary) through a Commission -defined or 
mutually agreed upon process, the cost of which would be shared by the parties .
174 These 
third-party neutrals would then engage the parties and attempt to resolve the dispute.  
Here again, deadlines are important to ensure timely resolution. If adopted , we 
recommend that the mediation/non -binding arbitration phase last no more than 6 weeks 
from start to finish. This would allow a week to decide on appropriate neutrals, four weeks 
to negotiate and formulate the neutral recommendation, and a week to rejec t or accept 
the recommendation.  
 
173 See, e.g. , Eversource Energy Interc onnection Tariff, § 9.1(b). 
174 In Massachusetts, unless the parties mutually agree on a different process, the parties select the third-
party neutral pursuant to a “reverse strike-out” process, where each party eliminates the least desirable 
neutral until o nly one is left.  See, e.g. , id. § 9.2(a) & n.5. 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
71  
 
As with the first phase, the mediator’s recommendation would not be binding.  If 
either party does not accept it, the dispute would proceed to the next and final phase —
Formal Adjudicatory Proceedings. This phase would remain  unchanged from Maine’s 
current process, described in Chapter 324, S ection 15(C). 
 It should be noted that this process identified above would be extremely lengthy 
for disputes that are centrally about timelines or delays (and not technically issues). Than kfully, compliance with timelines in the procedures was not raised as a significant 
issue at this time for Maine developers, but the Commission may want to consider a more expedited track for t imeline disputes should they begin to arise or as part of this broader 
effort.  
 Finally, to increase transparency and better inform the Commission on future rule 
changes and/or staffing decisions, we recommend that the Commission require that the Ombudsperson prepare  quarterly reports documenting the dispute resolution process.  
These reports should contain information  regarding the number and types of disputes, the 
length of time it takes to resolve disputes, and the outcomes of disputes.  
 A streamlined dispute resolution process like the one described here would likely 
reduce costs for developers and utilities on the whole by avoiding the extremely costly process of seeking formal adjudication before the Commission (which typically involves legal counsel). If the Commission creates an ombudsperson position or devotes existing staff tim e to fulfilling that role, this proposal would impact the Commission’s budget.  
  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
72  
B. ADDITIONAL ISSUES THAT IMPACT  THE INTERCONNECTION PROCESS 
FOR SMALL PROJECTS 
1. Issue : A lack of transparency regarding distribution upgrade costs 
creates uncertainty and mistrust.  
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Maine ’s interconnection procedures do not require, and utilities currently do not 
publish, any information on the costs of upgrades that are typical for Level 1 or Level 2 
projects. As mentioned above, IREC sought this information from the utilities to inform this 
report and was unable to acquire it. 
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
An overarching theme that has emerged from interviews with DER developers 
concerns the need for increased transparency and predictability in the interconnection 
process. With respect to upgrade costs, developers have indicated that they have little 
visibility into what upgrades will be required and how those costs are calculated.175 
Developers have experienced variable costs for similar types of upgrades, and thus often cannot predict the cost of a project. While there may be differences across projects that 
will result in some variation in costs of similar upgrades, the utilities could provide increased transparency into expected costs of certain common upgrades. If the 
Commission adopts the cost waiver for solar projects serving on -site load discussed in 
Section II.A.1, above , this issue may be moot for qualified projects. 
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Cost guides are commonly prepared by Independent System Operators (“ISOs”).
176 
The California PUC has also required the publication of a cost guide for the distribution 
 
175 IREC Interview with ReVision Energy (Nov. 15, 2021); IREC Interview with Maynard’s Electric (Nov. 18, 
2021).  
176 See, e.g. , MISO, Transmission Cost Estimation Guide  (Apr. 27, 2021), 
https://cdn.misoenergy.org/Transmission%20Cost%20Estimation%20Guide%20for%20MTEP21337433.pdf ; 
(footnote continued on next page) 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
73  
system.177 The guides prepared by the ISOs vary a bit and are generally quite detailed.178 
The cost guides prepared for the California distribution system generally are  more 
streamlined and include expected upgrade costs for transformers, overhead and 
underground service, metering, and telemetry.179 
 
d. Recommendation  
To provide more transparency into  upgrade costs for small projects, the 
Commission could require utilities to publish a “Distribution Cost Upgrade Guide,” similar 
to what utilities in California publish, that would provide the anticipated costs for typical interconnection upgrades. The guides could be updated  on an annua l basis to include the 
latest pricing information. The guides also should include a clear explanation of any 
adders, taxes, or other charges that are typically included in addition to the base equipment and labor costs. 
 Utilities should publish the guides in a readily accessible place on their websites. 
The Commission also may consider requiring utilities to file or otherwise provide the guides to the Commission when updated each year. 
 
PJM, Transmission Cost Information Center, https://www.pjm.com/planning/project -construction  (“The 
Transmission Cost Information Center helps stakeholders understand current transmission costs and 
estimate future ones.”); CAISO, Participating Transmission Owner Per Unit Costs – 2021 , 
https://stakeholdercenter.caiso.com/RecurringStakeholderProcesses/Participating-transmission- owner -per-
unit-costs -2021 . 
177 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R11- 09-011, Order Instituting Rulemaking on the Commission’s Own Motion to 
Improve Distribution Level Interconnection Rules and Regulations for Certain Classes of Electric Generators 
and Electric Storage Resour ces, Decision D16-06 -052, Alternate Decision Instituting Cost Certainty, 
Granting Joint Motions to Approve Proposed Revisions To Electric Tariff Rule 21, and Providing Smart Inverter Development A Pathway Forward for Pacific Gas and Electric Company, South ern California Edison 
Company, and San Diego Gas & Electric Company, pp . 6-7, 19 (June 23, 2016) (“Using a consistent format, 
each Utility will publish a Cost Guide for facilities generally required to interconnect generation to their respective Distributi on systems. While not be binding for actual facility costs, the Cost Guide will provide 
the anticipated cost of procuring and installing delineated facilities during the current year, acknowledging 
that costs may vary among the Utilities and within an indi vidual Utility’s service territory. The Cost Guide 
will include forecast costs for five years to allow project planning.”). 
178 See, e.g. , CAISO, PG&E 2021 Final Per Unit Cost Guide (Apr. 1, 2021), available at  
https://www.caiso.com/InitiativeDocuments/PGE2021FinalPerUnitCostGuide.xlsx  (detailing costs for over 
50 different items ranging from new substation equipment to transmission line upgrades and more). 
179 See, e.g. , SDG&E, Rule 21 Unit Cost Guide (Mar. 31, 2020), 
https://www.sdge.com/sites/default/files/documents/unit.cost_.guide_.3.31.20_R3_EAJ1.pdf . 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
74  
The cost guides need not be binding, as equipment and labor costs may 
occasionally change due to circumstances outside of the utilities’ control. However, they 
are nonetheless useful in providing  a stable point of comparison and may help facilitate 
constructive dialog ue if disputes about cost estimates do arise. 
 
If the Commi ssion decides to require publication of these guides, we recommend 
that it also require utilities to align the cost guide with the manner in which the utilities provide upgrade cost estimates to customers. This will allow easy comparison of the 
upgrade cost estimate with the cost guide and help increase transparency and predictability of upgrade costs.  
 
2. Issue : Greater reporting of interconnection queue data  may 
improve expectations about the interconnection process  and 
provide the Commission with visibility into how well it is functioning . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures  and Practices  
Currently, Maine’s Interconnection Procedures require its investor-owned utilities to 
publish a public queue that lists information about each Level 4 interconnection request and that must be updated at least twice each calendar month.
180 However, the procedures 
currently do not require the same kind of reporting for projects proceeding under Levels 1, 2, or 3, and utilities thus do not collect data on many aspects of the interconnection process for these projects.   
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
The lack of a reporting requirement  has resulted in a dearth of information on the 
actual implementation of the interconnection process for Level 1 and Level 2 projects. 
Indeed, the authors of this report encountered exactly this issue when seeking to gather data to inform the report and it s recommendations, indicating the utilities may not be 
 
180 Chapter 324, § 12(Y).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
75  
tracking it consistently. Neither CMP nor Versant currently maintains producible records or 
data on timelines for processing Level 1 or 2 projects, individual or aggregated information 
regarding screen  failures, or information on distribution upgrade costs for Level 1 or 2 
projects. Requiring utilities to track the interconnection process and regularly report on 
their status through a public queue increases transparency and accountability. Further, the 
Commission will need this information if it is to be able to determine if penalties are warranted for lack of timeline compliance for Level 1 and 2 projects.
181 
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
States differ in their requirements for the types of systems tracked in 
interconnection queues: some require all interconnection applications to be included in the queue (e.g., Minnesota),
182 while others may limit what is tracked by distributed 
generation system capacity (e.g., Maryland)183 or level of review (similar to Maine). States 
also vary in the breadth of information required to be reported, with some allowing the utilities to choose the data they publish in the queue (e.g., North Carolina),
184 and others 
requiring a certain set of data points to be included like Maine  (e.g. Massachusetts) .185 
IREC’s Model Interconnection P rocedures recommend that utilities include at least 21 
specific items in their public queue reports.186 Maine’s interconnection procedures 
currently require utilities to report on 19 data points (listed as 16 items in the procedures 
but the higher number includes all required dates as separate data points), including 10 of the IREC -recommended items.
187 
 
181 See Dkt. 2021 -00167, Order Amending Rule and Statement of Factual and Policy Basis, p. 12 (Dec. 21, 
2021).  
182 MN DIP, § 1.8.4.   
183 MD Code Regs. § 20.50.09.06.  
184 NC Util. Comm., Dkt . E-100, Sub 101, In the Matter of Petition for Approval of Revisions to Generator 
Interconnection Standards, Order Approving Revised Interconnection Standard and Requiring Reports and 
Testimony, p. 55 (June 14, 2019). 
185 See MA Dept. Energy Resources, Interconnection in Massachusetts , 
https://sites.google.com/site/massdgic/home/interconnection , accessed Jan. 30, 2022 (reporting data 
available under “Utility Reporting & Circuit Analysis for Locational Value” heading).  
186 IREC Model Interconnection Procedures, Att. 8 at pp. 1 -2. 
187 Chapter 324, § 12(Y). See also Appendix C for a comparison of Maine’s public queue data requirements 
with the recommended items from IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures.  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
76  
 
d. Recommendation  
Greater transparency into the process for interconnection applications for smaller 
projects, especially into key issues like timelines and screen failure, can benefit both 
applicants and the Commission charged with overseeing Maine’s interconnection process.  
Access to this information will allow applicants to better understand issues like how many projects need to be reviewed before theirs, how long the process may take, and what sorts of projects are likely to fail screens. The Commission likewise benefits from th is information 
by gaining greater insight into how the process is going, generally, and whether revisions to the procedures to improve the process are warranted. As the level of distributed 
generation capacity increases in Maine, this type of tracking could be especially helpful to identify grid integration challenges, such as the ongoing issue of Level 2 projects consistently failing the penetration screen (Screen 7(A)).  
 For these reasons, we recommend that the Commission consider updating Maine’s 
Interco nnection Procedures to require that utilities publish a public queue, ideally in a 
sortable spreadsheet format, for all levels of interconnection requests and not just Level 4 
projects. The Commission could also consider whether expanding the breadth of 
reportable data would be beneficial to the Commission and stakeholders. In particular, 
tracking the estimated and final costs of interconnection upgrades can be particularly valuable and may be necessary for proper oversight if the cost waiver is adopted. 
Requiring the utilities to produce these reports would add to utilities’ administrative costs, but we anticipate costs would be low once utilities develop streamlined processes for tracking data points as they are generated.  
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
77  
3. Issue : Integrated distribution planning  may offer a way to more 
efficiently upgrade the grid and allocate costs amongst 
beneficiaries . 
a. Maine’s Current Procedures and Practices  
As explained above in Section II.A.1.a , Maine currently has a “cost -causer” approach 
to Distribution Upgrades, which ties development of upgrades to a need triggered by a specific project and assigns the full cost of that upgrade to the triggering  project. 
b. The Need for Improvement  
As explained above, and as recognized in L.D. 1100, a potential barrier to 
interconnection of customer-sited solar projects is the lack of a streamlined approach to developing upgrades for these projects.  In the near term, IREC believes that the 
Distribution Upgrade cost waiver for these projects is likely to have a beneficial effect. In 
the long term, however, it could be beneficial to continue to move away from the traditional interconnection process (including the “cost-causer pays” model) of responding to individual interconnection applications and associated grid upgrades on a one -at-a-time 
basis, and toward a proactive planning framework that enables more efficient DER interconnection and fairer allocation of costs across all beneficiaries. One option to 
consider is an Integrated Distribution Planning (“IDP”) approach or other proactive planning 
framework to more efficiently and cost -effectively integrate DER onto the grid.   
 While there is no established method for conducting an IDP that includes proactive 
upgrades, the basic concept is that utilities would conduct long -range plans that take into 
account the full suite of DER growth (both from new generation and from electrification likely to increase load) in determining what changes are needed to the distribution system. This planning approach allows for a more holistic look at the variety of different drivers for  
distribution system investments, including aging infrastructure and the manner in which various DERs may interact and offset impacts when deployed together.  
 The traditional project -by-project approach can lead to interconnection delays and 
grid upgrade costs that are too high for interconnection customers to bear, particularly in 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
78  
jurisdictions with increasing DER. While larger DERs tend to be able to afford larger 
upgrade costs, at higher penetration levels, when significant upgrades are required, it can 
be impossible for any single project to afford an upgrade. G roup study processes that allow 
for cost sharing across applicants can sometimes help upgrades move forward, but they 
do not work in all circumstances (particularly where very significant upgrades are 
necessary) and they still allocate upgrade costs only to a limited number of projects rather 
than all the potential beneficiaries . Further, when small projects are on a feeder where a 
significant upgrade is needed (whether they trigger the upgrade or are behind the triggering project in the queue), those customers can effectively be unable to even serve their onsite load until there is a mechanism to allow for upgrades. Waiving distribution upgrade costs for customers with on -site systems offse tting their load will provide a 
mechanism for upgrades to be completed, but it may not be the most economically fair or efficient mechanism for allocating those costs in the long run where non-eligible projects 
and other DERs are in the mix .  A number of t he recommendations in this report are 
intended to ease these tensions, and a proactive distribution planning framework can further alleviate such constraints.  
 In addition to creating a mechanism for allocating costs for upgrades, the other 
advantage of a proactive approach is that it can prevent the delays associated with waiting for distribution upgrades to be completed because the construction can begin before a significant queue backlog emerges. It can also be used to help direct DER deployment to appro priate areas where benefits to the system and ratepayers can best be realized. 
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Other jurisdictions are exploring IDP -style planning models. Massachusetts, for 
example, is considering a process by which utilities would co nduct 10 -year DER and 
hosting capacity forecasts and proactively invest in grid upgrades to accommodate anticipated DER growth without having to wait for an interconnection customer to trigger the need and pay for upgrades.
188 Under the current straw proposal, utilities would recover 
 
188 MA Dept. Pub. Util., D kt. 20-75, Investigation by the Department of Public Utilities On Its Own Motion  
Into Electric Distribution Companies’ (1) Distributed Energy Resource Planning and (2) Assignment and 
(footnote continued on next page) 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
79  
the costs of proactive upgrades first from interconnection customers on a pro rata basis, 
with each customer paying for the portion of upgraded hosting capacity they use.189 If, after 
ten years, there remains any unsubscribed hosting capacity, the remaining grid upgrade 
fees would be rate -based.190 In addition, the straw proposal recognizes that certain 
distribution system upgrades “may have multiple beneficiaries”— meaning, more than one 
interconnection customer “or  customers at large,” and provides the following categories 
of multi -beneficiary upgrades: “(1) substation transformer replacements; (2) reconductoring 
of distribution feeders; (3) distribution protection measures; and (4) transmission related upgrades triggered by resources interconnecting to the distribution system.”
191 The 
question of how the costs of upgrades with multiple beneficiaries should be recovered is currently under consideration. 
 Other states considering or with proactive planning methodologies  in place  
include California,
192 Colorado,193 Maryland,194 and New York,195 each of which are 
exploring or implementing, at varying stages and with a variety of approaches, how 
hosting capacity forecasting can enable DER integration  and overall distribution system 
benefits .  
 
 
Recovery of Costs for the Interconnection of Distributed Generation, Vote and Order Opening 
Investigation, Att. A (Oct. 22, 2020).  
189 Id. at p. 6.  
190 Id. 
191 Id. at p. 9.  
192 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R21-06-017, Order Instituting Rulemaking to Modernize the Electric Grid for a 
High Distributed Energy Resources Future, Assigned Commissioner’s Scoping Memo and Ruling (Nov. 15, 
2021).  
193 CO Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 20R -0516E, In the Matter of the Proposed Amendments to Rules Regulating 
Electric Utilities, 4 CO Code Regs. § 723-3, Relating to Distribution System Planning, Decision Addressing 
Exceptions to Decision No. R21 -0287 and Adopting Rules (Aug. 25, 2021).  
194 See MD Pub. Serv. Comm., Dkt.  PC44, In the Matter of Transforming Maryland’s Electric Distribution 
Systems to Ensure That El ectric Service is Customer-Centered, Affordable, Reliable and Environmentally 
Sustainable in Maryland, Interconnection Workgroup Phase III Final Report (May 14, 2021) and Order and 
Recommendations of Interconnection Workgroup (Sept. 9, 2021).  
195 NY Pub. Ser v. Comm., Dkt. 20-E-0543, Petition of Interconnection Policy Working Group Seeking a Cost-
Sharing Amendment to the New York State Standardized Interconnection Requirements, Order Approving Cost -Sharing Mechanism and Making Other Findings (July 16, 2021).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
80  
d. Recommendation  
We recommend that the Commission also consider whether IDP or other proactive 
grid planning could improve the interconnection process across the board, including for 
small DER.  Notably, the Commission launched Case No. 2021 -00039 in 2020 to undertake 
“an in -depth, structured, and comprehensive examination of the future design and 
operation of the electric distribution system in Maine to accommodate both the integration and operation of increasing amounts of DER and the potential for load growth resulting from electrification efforts to meet climate change initiatives and objectives.”
196 The 
Commission’s investigation in that docket could explore distribution planning frameworks that proactively forecast and prepare to accommodate anticipated DER growth, as well as cost allocation methodologies that more fairly allocate costs and account for DER benefits to interconnection customers and ratepayers.  
 
4. Issue : Reliance on outdated versions of IEEE 1547 limits t he ability 
of DERs to provide needed grid services . 
a. Maine’s Current Practices and Procedures  
Maine’s Procedures currently rely on IEEE 1547 but have not incorporated the latest 
updates that were adopted in 2018.  
 
b. The Need for Improvement  
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 states that interconnection services shall be  “offered 
based upon the standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers: IEEE Standard 1547 for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power  Systems, as they may be amended from time to time.”
197 In 2020 the National 
Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners ( “NARUC ”) issued a resolution 
recommending that states adopt and implement the latest IEEE standard for 
 
196 ME Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 2021 -00039, Commission Initiated Investigation of the Design and Operation 
of Maine’s Electric Distribution System, Notice of Summary Investigation, p. 1  (Feb. 18, 2021).  
197 16 U.S.C. § 2621(d)(15).  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
81  
interconnection.198 The curren t Maine Procedures do not yet incorporat e the latest updates 
to 1547 that were adopted in 2018.  The latest version of 1547 (and the accompanying 
1547.1-2020 and update s to the UL 1741  test procedures) enables better utilization of 
inverter technology such that it can  provide grid support  services, and by doing so, safely 
enable higher penetration of DERs on  the system.199  
 
c. What Other Jurisdictions Are Doing  
Based on IREC’s engagement in the adoption of 1547 -2018 nationwide, the 
following states, jurisdictions, and utilities have adopted 1547 -2018 or adoption is expected 
soon (that is, a process for adoption has happened, but the adoption is not yet official): 
California, Hawaii, Long Island Power Authority, Maryland, Minnesota, and PPL Electric Utilities.  Additionally, the following states have convened working groups or proceedings 
to address adopting 1547-2018: Illinois, Massachusetts, North Carolina, New Mexico, New York  
 
d. Recommendation  
Maine’s interconnection procedures should be amended to include the new version 
of 1547, but the adoption process is not as simple as changing the reference year within the rule.  IEEE 1547 -2018 includes many new requirements compared to 1547- 2003, 
including voltage and frequency ride -throu gh, voltage regulation, frequency regulation, 
interoperability (communications), power quality, intentional islands (microgrids) , and new 
concepts including the Reference Point of Applicability. The utility and applicant should 
have the same understanding of how these requirements apply to a particular facility such that it can be interconnected successfully, and thus the requirements should be spelled out clearly in a technical interconnection requirements document. ISO-NE has published 
 
198 NARUC, Resolutions 2020 Winter Policy Summit (Feb. 12, 2020), https://pubs.naruc.org/pub/4C436369-
155D -0A36 -314F -8B6C4DE0F7C7 .  
199 For more information on the benefits of adopting the new standards and utilizing smart inverter 
functionality see Brian Lydic & Sara Baldwin, Making the Grid Smarter: Primer on Adopting the New IEEE 
1547TM-2018 Standard for Distributed Energy Resources, IREC  (Jan. 2019 ), 
https://irecusa.org/resources/making- the-grid-smarter-primer- on-adopting- the-new-ieee-standard- 1547 -
2018/ .  NREL also maintains a collection of IEEE 1547 -2018 resources at https://www.nrel.gov/grid/ieee -
standard-1547/educational- materials.htm  
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
82  
guidelines for 1547-2018 implementation which can be followed by Maine, and which can 
help simplify the process.  
 
To address the adoption  of 1547 -2018 , IREC recommend s that  the Commission 
implement a process similar to the one proposed here : 
1) Establish a stakeholder working group to engage in the adoption 
discussions, made up of , but not limited to, Commission staff, utilities, DER 
developers, ISO-NE, DER advocates, consumer advocates, 1547 standard experts, and technical assistance. 
2) Plan a schedule for addressing all 1547 adoption topics within the working group, including, but not limited to, those described above. 
3) Engage the working group to discuss the conceptual topics and decision points, with the goal of gaining consensus on which decisions will be 
addressed by formal guidance. 
4) Determine the suitable location for formal guidance, whether within the interconnection procedures, another tariff, Commission guidance document or utility documentation. 
5) Determine the timelin e for implementation.  
6) Identify and engage a writing group to formalize conceptual agreement and decision points within the draft guidance document(s). 
7) Distribute the draft guidance document(s) to the working group for one or more rounds of comment an d revision.  
8) Shepherd the guidance document(s) through any necessary regulatory 
process for final inclusion in the appropriate procedures, tariffs or other 
documentation.  
 The timeline for implementation of the new requirements is especially important to  
determine, as it will affect the manufacturers’ ability to make certified products available to the market and when developers must be prepared to utilize such equipment and implement the new requirements.  Utilities will need to prepare to integrate any n ecessary 
changes into the interconnection process.  
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071
83  
III. CONCLUSION 
No interconnection process will be perfect. When balancing clean -energy policy 
goals, the needs of customers seeking to offset electricity consumption, the 
responsibilities of the utilities to  maintain a safe and stable grid, and the interests of 
ratepayers, there is no one approach that will solve every problem. As  explained in this 
report, though,  interconnection procedures have been in place nationwide long enough 
for best practices— and lessons— to emerge. Here, the focus is on reducing barriers to 
interconnection of customer-sited DER, and IREC believes adopting the se 
recommendations will further this legislative goal. IREC looks forward to working with the 
Commission and stakeholders to develop updates to Maine’s Procedures through the 
coming regulatory process. 
 
 
Attachment A 
Docket No. 2022-00071

A
cknowledgments and Disclaimers 
2 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Acknowledgments and Disclaimers  
The project team wishes to thank the following individuals for their review of and input on the 
Toolkit and Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage and Solar- Plus-Storage : 
Gerhard Walker, Eversource  
Jeremy Keen, Systems Engineer, National Renewa ble Energy Laboratory  
Killian McKenna, National Renewable Energy Laboratory  
Michelle Rosier, Minnesota Public Utilities Commission  
Sydney Forrester, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory  
N
o part of this report should be attributed to these individuals or  their affiliated organizations 
and their mention here does not imply their endorsement of the report’s contents.  
I
n addition, the project team thanks staff of the Interstate Renewable Energy Council who 
contributed to the final document, including Gwen Brown for editing of the Toolkit, Nicole Wilson for layout and design , and Avery Palmer  and Mari Hernandez  for support in the 
creation of the Toolkit website.  
Th
is material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of 
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) under the Solar Energy and Technologies Office Award Number DE -EE0009002.  This report was prepared as an account of work 
sponsored by an  agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States 
Governm ent nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express 
or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United 
States Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of authors expressed 
herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof.  
Bu
ilding a Technically Reliable Interconnection Evolution for Storage (BATRIES) 
Project Team: The Storage Interconnection Committee 

 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 3 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table of Contents 
Acknowledgments and Disclaimers ............................................................................................................. 2 
Table of Contents  ..............................................................................................................................................3  
List of Tables and Figures ................................................................................................................................ 7 
Acronyms  ........................................................................................................................................................... 9 
Executive Summary  ......................................................................................................................................... 11 
A. Chapter II Key Takeaways  .................................................................................................... 13 
B. Chapter III Key Takeaways  ................................................................................................... 14 
C. Chapter IV Key Takeaways  .................................................................................................. 15 
D. Chapter V Key Takeaways  ................................................................................................... 17 
E. Chapter VI Key Takeaways  .................................................................................................. 19 
F. Chapter VII Key Takeaways  ................................................................................................ 20 
G. Chapter VIII Key Takeaways  ............................................................................................... 22 
H. Chapter IX Key Takeaways  .................................................................................................  26 
I. Introduction  ............................................................................................................................................. 29 
A. Key Features of Energy Storage Systems That Impact Interconnection Review  ............... 36 
1. Understanding ESS System Capabilities and Behavior  ................................................................ .. 36 
2. Changing Existing Interconnection Assumptions  ................................ ................................ ...........  37 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  ................................................... 40 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ................................................................................ 40 
B. Recommendations  ................................................................................................................ 41 
1. Applicability and Definitions of DER, Generating Facility, and ESS  ................................ ..............  41 
2. Definitions of Power Control System and Related Terms  ................................ .............................  42 
3. Definitions of Nameplate Rating and Export Capacity  ................................ ................................ ... 43 
4. Definitions of Operating Profile and Operating Schedule  ............................................................  44 
5. Updates to Forms and Agreements  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 44 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non -Export Controls  ......................................................................... 45 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ................................................................................ 45 
B. State Approaches to Identifying Export Control Methods  ............................................. 46 
C. Traditional Export Control Methods  .................................................................................. 47 
D. Certification Requirement Decision (CRD)  .............................................................................. 48 
E. Recommendations  ....................................................................................................................... 50 
1. Interconnection Procedures  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................. 50 
2. Recommended Language  ................................ ................................ ....................................................  52 
IV. Evaluation of Non -Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening  
or Study Process  ............................................................................................................................................. 56 
 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 4 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ................................................................................ 56 
B. Background on Technical Review Processes  ................................................................... 57 
C. Recommendations  ...................................................................................................................... 59 
1. Verifying Export Control Methods  ................................ ................................ .......................................  59 
2. Eligibility Limits for Screening Processes Should Reflect Export Capacity, Not Nameplate 
Rating  ................................ ................................ ................................................................ .............................. 60 
a. Simplified Process Eligibility  ................................ ................................ ............................................ 60 
b. Fast Track Process Eligibility  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  61 
3. Screens Require Modifications so the Impact of Export -Controlled Systems Is Accurately 
Evaluated  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................................................  62 
a. Screens in Which Export Capacity Is Appropriate to Use When Assessing Impacts  ....... 62 
b. Screens Where Evaluation Is Not Impacted by Export Controls ............................................ 66 
4. Study Process Modifications to Accommodate Export Control Capabilities  ...........................  67 
5. Reviewing ESS With Proposed Operating Profiles  ................................ ................................ ........ 68 
6. Proposed Revisions to Rule Language ................................................................ .............................  69 
a. System Impact Study  ................................................................ ................................ ..........................  75 
b. System Impact Study Agreement  ................................................................ ................................ .... 75 
c. Feasibility Study Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  76 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  ...................................................................................... 77 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ........................................................................................ 77 
B. Modeling, Simulation, and Testing: Technical Evaluation of Inadvertent Export  ............... 78 
C. Inadvertent Export Field Test Results  ...................................................................................... 78 
D. Modeling Inadvertent Export on Urban and Rural Feeders  .................................................. 80 
1. Simulation Scenarios and Results Summary: Urban Feeder  ................................ .........................  83 
2. Assessment of Case Results and Discussion: Urban Feeder  ......................................................  84 
a. Steady -State Voltage Rise With No Energy Storage  ................................................................ .. 84 
b. Maximum Voltage Rise With PV Export and Energy Storage Inadvertent Export  ............  85 
c. Steady -State Voltage Rise With Maximum DER Nameplate and Loading  ..........................  86 
d. 200- Second Inadvertent Export Diversity and RMS Voltages  ................................................  87 
e. Coincident Inadvertent Export and RMS Voltages ................................ .....................................  88 
3. Simulation Scenarios and Results Summary: Rural  Feeder  ................................ .........................  89 
4. Assessment of Case Results and Discussion: Rural Feeder  ................................ .......................  90 
E. Key Findings and Observations  .................................................................................................  92 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  ............... 94 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ....................................................................................... 94 
B. Recommendations ....................................................................................................................... 95 
1. Providing Data via Pre -Application Reports and Basic Distribution System Maps  ................  95 
2. Hosting Capacit y Analysis Maps and Results  ................................................................ .................  98 
a. Hosting Capacity Analyses as Information Tools to Guide ESS Design  .............................. 99 
b. Hosting Capacity Analyses as Decision -Making Tools in the Interconnection Review 
Process for ESS  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......................................  100 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to 
Mitigate the Need for Upgrades ................................................................................................................ 103 
 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 5 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ......................................................................................103  
B. Types of System Modifications That an ESS Could Implement to Mitigate Impacts  ....... 104 
C. Recommendations  .................................................................................................................... 105 
1. Interconnection Procedures Should Be Revised to Provide More Data on Failed Screens
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  105 
2. Screening Results Should Provide Relevant and Useful Data  ..................................................  106 
3. Impact Study Results Should Provide Analysis of Alternate Options  ................................ ....... 110 
4. Processes Should Allow for Design Modifications to Mitigate Impacts  ................................ .... 111 
5. Allowance for Design Changes After Supplemental Review  ................................ ......................  112 
6. Allowance for Design Changes Within Full Study  ................................ ................................ ..........  114 
a. Study Options ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................................  114 
b. Post -Results Modifications ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............  114 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  ............ 116 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ...................................................................................... 116 
B. UL 1741 Certification Requirement Decision for Power Control Systems  .......................... 117 
1. Recommendations  ................................ ................................................................ ................................ ... 118 
C. IEEE 1547  ..................................................................................................................................... 119 
1. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.2 Reference Points of Applicability (RPA)  ................................ ........................  119 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  121 
2. IEEE 1547- 2018 4.5 Cease to Energize Performance Requirement  ................................ .........  123 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  123 
3. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.6.2 Capability to Limit Active Power  ................................................................  123 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  124 
4. IEEE 1547- 2018 4.6.3 Execution of Mode or Parameter Changes  ................................ ............  124 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  125 
5. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.7 Prioritization of DER Responses  ................................................................ .... 125 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  126 
6. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.10.3 Performance During Enter Service  .........................................................  127 
a. Recommendation  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  127 
7. IEEE 1547- 2018 4.13 Exemptions for Emergency Systems and Standby DER  .......................  127 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  128 
8. IEEE 1547- 2018 5.4.2 Voltage -Active Power Mode  ................................ ................................ ...... 128 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  128 
9. IEEE 1547 -2018 8.2 Intentional Islanding  ................................ .........................................................  129 
a. Recommendation  ................................ ................................................................ ...............................  129 
10. IEEE 1547 -2018 10 Interoperability, Information Exchange, Information Models, and 
Protocols  ................................................................ ................................ ................................ .......................  129 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................  130 
11. Grid Services  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  130 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............................. 131 
D. Effective Grounding  ................................................................................................................... 132 
1. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 134 
E. Interconnec tion Procedures and Technical Requirements Should Reference Recent 
Standards  ......................................................................................................................................... 135 
 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 6 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  1. Recommendation  ................................ ................................ ................................................................ .... 135 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules .................................  137 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  ...................................................................................... 137 
B. Enabling Safe and Reliable Scheduling Capabilities  ............................................................. 138 
1. Establishing Standards and Certification for Scheduling Capabilities  ................................ ...... 139 
a. Recommendations for Sup porting and Accelerating Standards Development  ...............  140 
2. Alternate Approaches for Safe and Reliable Utilization of Operating Schedules  .................  141 
a. Field Testing  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........................................  141 
b. Regional Test Standard  ................................ ................................................................ ....................  142 
c. Mon itoring and Backup Control  ................................................................ ................................ ..... 142 
d. Attestations ................................ ................................................................ ................................ ..........  143 
C. Developing Methodologies for Efficient Evaluation of Energy Storage Projects With 
Proposed Operating Profiles  ......................................................................................................... 144 
1. Utility Data Needs for Evaluating Operating Profiles  ................................ ................................ .... 145 
2. Defining Screening and Study Techniques for Operating Profiles  ................................ ..........  146 
a. Using Hosting Capacity Analyses to Evaluate Proposed Operating Profiles  .................... 146 
3. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 147 
D. Establishin g Standardized Formats for Communication of Operating Schedules  ........... 147 
1. Taxonomy Working Group Template ................................ ................................ ................................  150 
2. Recommendations  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ . 152 
X. Conclusion  ................................................................................................................................................ 153 
XI. Appendices .............................................................................................................................................. 154 
A. Unaddressed Bar riers ................................................................................................................ 154 
1. Addressing the Risks of Storage Systems Causing Flicker or Rapid Voltage Changes  ..... 154 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................................................ .............................  155 
2. Addressing the Impacts of Storage System Power Transitions  ................................ ................  155 
a. Recommendations  ................................ ................................................................ .............................  156 
B. Power Control Systems and the UL CRD  ............................................................................... 159 
1. Background  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  159 
2. Test Protocol Summary  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  159 
C. Research Supporting Voltage Change (Inadvertent Export) Screen Recommendation  . 165 
D. Modeling, Simulation, and Testing: Technical Ev aluation of Inadvertent Export —
Inadvertent Export Research  ........................................................................................................ 168 
1. Urban Feeder  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  168 
a. Characterization of Urban Feeder  ................................................................ ................................ . 168 
2. Rural Feeder  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  174 
a. Characterizat ion of Rural Feeder  ................................ ................................ ...................................  174 
b. Additional Case 5 Results for Rural Feeder  ................................................................ ................  177 
E. Recommended Procedure Language  ...................................................................................... 178 
F. Recommended Language to Use in Interconnection Application Forms  ........................... 197 
 
 
 
List of Tables and Figures  
 
 7 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  List of Tables  and Figures  
Tables: 
Table 1.  Acceptable Export Control Methods ............................................................................... 52 
Table 2.  Summary Details of Modeled Feeders ............................................................................ 81 
Table 3.  Simulation Scenarios for Urban Feeder ......................................................................... 83 
Table 4.  Simulation of Scenarios for Rural Feeder  ...................................................................... 89 
Table 5.  Data Provisions for Individual SGIP Screens  ............................................................... 107 
Table 6.  Example Study Results With Alternate Options  .......................................................... 110 
 Appendix Tables: Table XI. 1.  Summary of UL Certification Requirement Decision (CRD)  ............................... 162
 
Table XI. 2.  Additional Simulation Scenarios for Urban Feeder  ............................................. 174 
Table XI. 3.  Rural Feeder: Transformer Tap Positions ............................................................... 176 
Table XI. 4.  Additional Simulation Scenarios f or Rural Feeder  ............................................... 178 
Table XI. 5.  Initial Transformer Tap Positions  .............................................................................. 178 
 
Figures: 
Figure 1. Local Power Control System Supporting Export Limiting (EPRI)  ............................. 49 
Figure 2.  Comparison of OLRT Among Four PCS Devices ....................................................... 80 
Figure 3 . Case 1 Urban Feeder: Voltage -Level Map (Left) and Coincident RMS Maximum 
Voltages Along the Feeder (Right)  ................................................................................................... 85 
Figure 4.  Case 5 Urban Feeder: Voltage -Level Map (Left) and Coincident RMS Maximum 
Voltages Along the Feeder  ................................................................................................................ 86 
Figure 5 . Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder 
With 10% Inadvertent Export (Left) and 100% Inadvertent Export (Right)  Note:  Maximum 
RMS voltage rise is mitigated by the maximum load simulated o n the circuit. .................... 87 
Figure 6.  Case 8 Urban Feeder: Inadvertent Export Profile (Left) and Time Series RMS 
Maximum Voltage Profiles During the Same Time Period (Right)  ............................................ 87 
Figure 7.  Case 6 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve (Left) and Time 
Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right)  .............................................................................. 88 
Figure 8. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve (Left) and Time 
Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right)  .............................................................................. 89 
Figure 9.  Rura l Feeder: LVR Operations at 10 Seconds OLRT (Left) and 30 Seconds OLRT 
(Right)  ........................................................................................................................................................ 91 
Figure 10.  Rural Feeder: Overvoltage Violations at 30 Seconds OLRT (Case 5) at Right, 
and 10 Seconds OLRT (Case 6) at Left  ............................................................................................. 91 
Figure 11. Proposed Operating Schedule Details, Massachusetts .........................................149  
Figure 12.  Sample Operating Schedule Template and Applicable Use Cases  .................. 151 
 
Appendix Figures: 
Figure XI. 1.  Local Power Control System Supporting Export Limiting (EPRI)  .....................164  
 
 
List of Tables and Figures  
 
 8 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Figure XI. 2.  Local Power Control System Supporting NEM Integrity (EPRI)  ...................... 165 
Figure XI. 3.  Voltage Change Calculated Along a Feeder for a 2 MW Change in Export at 
Each PCC  ............................................................................................................................................... 166 
Figure XI. 4.  Non-Exporting DER Size at Each Node Based on the PCC Short 
CircuitMVA/DERMVA = 25  ................................................................................................................. 167 
Figure XI. 5.  Voltage Changes Assuming Nameplate Power Change at Three Power 
Factors  ................................................................................................................................................... 168 
Figure XI. 6.  Urban Feeder Voltage -Level Map  ......................................................................... 169 
Figure XI. 7.  Voltages Along the Urban Feeder With Cap acitor Bank On (Left) and Off 
(Right)  ..................................................................................................................................................... 169 
Figure XI. 8 . Case 2 Urban Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV 
Output/Minimum  Load (Left) and RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right) ....... 170 
Figure XI. 9.  Urban Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV 
Output/Maximum Load (Left) and RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right)  ...... 170 
Figure XI. 10.  Urban Feeder: Line Loading With Maximum Solar PV Output Under 
Minimum Load Conditions (Case 2) (Left) and Maximum Load Conditions (Right)    ............ 171 
Figure XI. 11. Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve With 10s OLRT 
(Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right) ................................................ 172 
Figure XI. 12.  Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve With 30s OLRT 
(Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right) ................................................ 172 
Figure XI. 13. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Non -Coincident Inadvertent Export Profile With 30s 
OLRT (Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles During the Same Time 
Period (Right)  ......................................................................................................................................... 173 
Figure XI. 14.  Case 8 Urban Feeder: Non -Coincident Inadvertent Export Profile With 2s 
OLRT (Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles During the Same Time 
Period (Right)  ......................................................................................................................................... 173 
 Figure XI. 15. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Thermal Loading With 0% Inadvertent Export (Left) 
and 100% Coincident Inadvertent Export (Right) for Urban Feeder  ....................................... 174 
 Figure XI. 16. Rural Feeder Voltage Profile  ................................................................................. 175 
Figure XI. 17.  Rural Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV 
Output/Minimum Load (Left) and RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right) ....... 175 
Figure XI. 18. Rural Feeder: Line Loading With Maximum Solar PV Output Under 
Minimum Load Conditions  ................................................................................................................. 176 
Figure XI. 19.  Rural Fee der: “Rapid Fire” Inadvertent Export Profile With 10s OLRT (Left) 
and 30s OLRT (Right)  .......................................................................................................................... 177 
Figure XI. 20.  Case 5 Rural Feeder: Line Loading at t=25s With 30s OLRT (Left) and 
Inadvertent Export Profile (Right)  ..................................................................................................... 177 
  
 
 
Acronyms  
 
 9 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Acronyms  
AC  alternating current  
ADMS   advanced distribution management system  
AMI  advanced metering infrastructure  
ANSI   American National Standards Institute  
BATRIES  Building a Technically Reliable Interconnection Evolution for Storage  
CRD   Certification Requirement Decision  
CT  current transformer  
DC  direct current  
DER  distributed energy resource  
DERMS  distributed energy resource management system  
EPRI   Electric Power Research Institute  
EPS  electric power system  
ESS  energy storage system(s)  
FERC   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  
HCA   hosting capacity anal ysis 
IEEE   Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
IREC   Interstate Renewable Energy Council 
ISO  Independent System Operator 
ITIC  Information Technology Industry Council  
kV  kilovolt  
kVA  kilovolt -ampere  
kvar  kilovolt -ampere (reactive)   
kW  kilowatt 
kWh   kilowatt-hour  
LG  line-to-ground  
LL  line-to-line 
LTC  load tap changer  
LVR  line voltage regulator 
MVA   megavolt -ampere  
Mvar   megavolt -ampere (reactive)  
 
 
Acronyms  
 
 10 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  MW  megawatt  
NEM   net energy metering  
NRTL   Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory  
NYSERDA  New York State Energy Research and Development Authority  
OLRT  open loop response time  
OpenDSS Open Distribution System Simulator 
PCC   Point of Common Coupling  
PCS  Power Control System(s)  
PF  power factor  
PoC  Point of DER Connection  
POI  Point of Interconnection  
PUC   Public Utility Commission  
PV  photovoltaic  
RMS   Root Mean Square  
RPA  Reference Point of Applicability 
RTAC   Real Time Automation Controller 
RTO  Regional Transmission Organization  
RTU  Remote Terminal Unit  
RVC   Rapid Voltage Change  
SA  Supplement SA, as part of UL 1741  
SCADA  Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition  
SGIP   Small Generator Interconnection Procedures 
SolarTAC  Solar Technology Acceleration Center  
STORIC  Storage Interconnection Committee  
UL  Underwriters Laboratories 
V2G   vehicle -to-grid 
V2H   vehicle -to-home  
 
  
Executive Summary
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 11 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Executive Summary  
Energy storage systems (storage or ESS) are essential to enabling the clean energy 
transition and a low -carbon electric grid. A growing number of states have adopted 
ambitious energy and climate targets that will require them to implement a wide spectrum of well -designed policies, from market -based incentives to encourage investment in 
distributed energy resources (DER), to effective DER interconnection procedures that enable the rapid, efficient, and cost -effective integration of large amounts of DER s onto 
the grid.  
Storage is a foundational tool in this transition. As renewable generation grows, storage will become an increasingly important asset for the  energy management services it 
provides.  
For example, when paired with solar, storage can provide more control over the timing and amount of energy imported from and exported to the electric grid, and can support the integration of renewables through seve ral means, including by providing frequency 
regulation. Utility-scale storage can provide better resource management in states with high wind and solar deployment by mitigating the intermittency of renewable generation. And behind the meter storage can serve as a resilience resource, reduce energy costs for customers, and reduce the need for infrastructure investments necessary to serve peak demand. 
These capabilities present both opportunities and challenges for storage interconnection. 
In order to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of the grid, utilities must be able to trust that storage will operate as described in interconnection agreements, which allows utilities to anticipate and respond to any potential grid impacts. At the same time, 
interconnection customers must have access to a fair, efficient, and cost -effective 
interconnection process that gives them maximum freedom to interconnect their storage assets in a manner that meets their needs ( e.g., having the flexibility to respo nd to price 
signals). 
Most states’ existing DER interconnection procedures are not designed with storage in 
mind, which can create unintended time, cost, and technical barriers to storage integration. As one example, most interconnection rules either permit or require utilities to evaluate the impacts of storage on the grid with the assumption that storage systems will export their full nameplate capacity at all times. In reality, this assumption is extreme for several reasons and doesn’t reflect how storag e is typically operated, thus creating an 
unnecessary— but solvable —barrier to storage interconnection.  
In addition, interconnection procedures that aren’t tailored to serve a jurisdiction’s DER market conditions— such as when the speed of DER deployment ou tpaces the grid’s 
existing hosting capacity or utilities’ ability to process applications— can lead to serious 
queue backlogs or high grid upgrade fees that become barriers to interconnection.  
Several states have recognized the importance of storage in sup porting DER growth and 
achieving climate and energy goals and have updated, or are currently in the process of 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 12 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  updating, their interconnection rules to address the unique characteristics of storage. 
However, a great deal of work remains, not just in the nu mber of states that still have to 
integrate storage into their interconnection rules, but in developing solutions to the complex technical and procedural challenges of storage interconnection.  
In response to the need for solutions, the Building a Technica lly Reliable Interconnection 
Evolution for Storage (BATRIES) project provides recommendations and best practices for 
eight critical storage interconnection challenges. The BATRIES project team selected the barriers to address through a stakeholder engageme nt process that included the input of 
utilities, DER developers, public service commission regulatory staff, smart inverter manufacturers, and others. The partners also drew upon their experience engaging in research on storage interconnection and particip ating in related state regulatory 
proceedings. 
The storage interconnection barriers addressed in the Toolkit and Guidance for the 
Interconnection of Energy Storage and Solar-Plus -Storage  (Toolkit) include:  
● Lack of inclusion of storage in interconnection rules, and the lack of clarity as to 
whether and how existing interconnection rules (and related documents, such as 
application forms and agreements) apply to storage systems (addressed in 
Chapter II)  
● Lack of inclusion of accep table methods that can be used for controlling export of 
limited-and non -export systems in interconnection rules (addressed in Chapter III)  
● Evaluation of non - and limited- export systems based on unrealistic operating 
assumptions that lead to overestimated grid impacts (addressed in Chapter IV ) 
● Lack of clarity regarding the impacts of inadvertent export from limited- and non -
export systems and the lack of a uniform specification for export control equipment response times to address inadvertent export  (addressed in Chapter V ) 
● Lack of information about the distribution grid and its constraints that can inform where and how to interconnect storage  (addressed in Chapter VI )  
● Lack of ability to make system design changes to address grid impacts and avoid 
upgrades during the interconnection review process (addressed in Chapter VII ) 
● States that have not incorporated updated standards into their interconnection 
procedures and technical requirements (addressed in Chapter VIII ) 
● Lack of defined rules and processes for the evaluation of operating schedules (Chapter IX ) 
 
The below sections provide the key takeaways from each chapter. The recommendations 
are necessarily shortened here. Within the chapters themselves, they include model language and other resources, as well as sub-recommendations and nuances that go 
beyond the key takeaways described below.  
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 13 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  A. Chapter II Key Takeaways  
The Toolkit begins with Chapter II: Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive 
of Storage , which lays the fo undation for integrating storage in interconnection 
procedures. This chapter identifies the fundamental elements required for ESS integration 
into interconnection procedures. This includes a discussion of how to include storage in the terms used to describe the types of projects that will be reviewed, and recommended 
definitions for the concepts that are necessary to ensuring adequate review of ESS, which are further discussed in later chapters.  
 
Recommendations for Updating Interconnection  
Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage:  
 
1. Interconnection procedures should define the term ESS and clearly state that 
the procedures apply to the interconnection of new standalone ESS, and ESS 
paired with other generators, such as solar. 
 
2. Interconnection procedures should define and describe the requirements and 
use of Power Control Systems (PCS), which are essential to capturing the 
advanced capabilities of storage. 
 
3. Because DERs paired with ESS often limit their output using a PCS or other 
means, interconnection procedures should include defined terms that 
describe the maximum amount of output that takes into account acceptable 
export control methods (“Export Capacity”), which can be contrasted with the 
DER’s maximum rated power output (“Nameplate Rating”).  
 
4. Interconnection procedures should include definitions of the terms “operating 
schedule” (reflecting the fact that DERs with energy storage can control their 
import and export according to a fixed schedule), and “operating profile” 
(describing th e maximum output possible in a particular hour based on the 
DER’s operating schedule or resource characteristics).  
 
5. In addition to integrating storage into the interconnection procedures, states 
should also require utilities within their jurisdiction to up date related 
interconnection documents, including application forms, study agreements, 
and interconnection agreements.  
 
 
  
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 14 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  B. Chapter III Key Takeaways  
Next, the Toolkit provides recommendations to ensure that the method a storage system 
uses to control export is safe and reliable. This can be done by updating interconnection procedures to recognize the ability of ESS to control and manage export in a way that can 
mitigate or avoid grid impacts. Chapter III: Requirements for Limited - and Non -Export 
Controls  provides background on the different methods available for controlling export 
and pays particular attention to Power Control Systems. The chapter discusses how PCS work and the current standards development process for them (UL 1741 Certification Requirem ent Decision for Power Control Systems). The chapter also provides 
recommendations on how to recognize acceptable export control means in interconnection procedures. It proposes options for doing so in a manner that supports safety and reliability, while a lso increasing certainty for customers and minimizing the need 
for time -consuming and potentially costly customized reviews by the utility.  
 
Recommended Requirements for Limited - and Non-Export Controls:  
 
1. Relying on customized review of the export controls for every 
interconnection application is a significant barrier for ESS deployment. Non -
standard types of export control equipment will continue to need customized 
review, but interconnection procedures should be updated to identify a list 
of accep table methods that can be trusted and relied upon by both the 
interconnection customer and the utility. The recommended model language 
establishes that if an applicant uses one of these export control methods, the 
Export Capacity specified in the application will be used by the utility for 
evaluation during the screening and study process. 
 
2. For Power Control Systems specifically, in order to recognize the controllable 
nature of ESS in interconnection review, PCS should be included in the list of 
eligible ex port controls, and the limits set by the PCS should be considered 
as enforcing the Export Capacity specified in the application.  
 
3. The chapter provides six different acceptable export control methods, and a 
seventh export control option that allows for the use of any other method so 
long as the utility approves its use. 
 
 
  
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 15 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  C. Chapter IV Key Takeaways  
Once a project’s means of safely and reliably controlling export have been established, as 
described in Chapter III, the project can be screened and/or studied with the assumption 
that it will control export as specified. Ho wever, because most interconnection procedures 
have been drafted without export controls in mind, this means that the screening and study processes need to be updated to specify how limited-  and non -export projects will be 
reviewed. In Chapter IV: Evaluation of Non -Export and Limited-Export Systems During the 
Screening or Study Process, the Toolkit provides background on the typical 
interconnection technical review process today, explains how the technical review of export -controlled systems can change, and provides recommendations for how 
interconnection screening and study processes can be updated to recognize these 
controls.  
 
Recommendations for Evaluating Non -Export and  
Limited -Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process:  
 
1. When an interconnection application is submitted, interconnection rules 
provide the utility with a period of time to review the application for 
completeness and verify the screening or study process that the application 
will be first reviewed under. Interconnection application forms should be 
updated to include information about the ESS and, where export controls are 
used, the type of export control and the equipment type and settings that will 
be used. During its completeness review and once screening or study 
commences, the utility should verify that the equipment used is certified, 
where necessary, and/or is otherwise acceptable for the intended use. The 
utility should also verify that the export control methods used meet the criteria 
identified in the ex port control section of the rule, as discussed in Chapter III.  
 
2. In determining eligibility limits for Simplified and Fast Track processes, 
interconnection procedures should reflect Export Capacity, not just 
Nameplate Rating, in the screening thresholds. 
 
3. Interconnection applicants should be permitted to use the Simplified process 
for screening purposes for certain inverter- based projects if the Nameplate 
Rating does not exceed 50 kilowatts ( kW) and the Export  Capacity does not 
exceed 25 kW.  
 
4. Some interconnection screens may need to be modified to distinguish 
between the Nameplate Rating and the Export Capacity of a project in order 
to accurately evaluate the distribution system impacts of export -controlled 
systems. Each interconnection screen is designed to evaluate whether there 
is a risk that a proposed project will cause a particular type of impact on the 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 16 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  distribution system. Some of these screens evaluate a project’s likely impacts 
based upon the “size” of the project, which is generally assumed to refer to 
the Nameplate Rating of the project. In the case of limited-export storage 
systems, using Nameplate Rating instead of Export Capacity can result in an 
overestimation of the project’s impact. Chapter IV  identifies screens in which 
Export Capacity is appropriate to use when assessing impacts, including in a 
new inadvertent export screen, as well as screens where evaluation is not 
impacted by export controls. 
 
5. As with interconnection screens, interconnection studies must take into 
account the manner in which a project has limited export when they assess 
impacts in the system impact study. If a proposed project is using one of the 
acceptable means of export control described in Chapter III, the utility should 
evaluate impacts to the distribution system using the project’s Export 
Capacity, except when evaluating fault current effects.   
 
     6.  In order for the interconnection process to fully recognize the ways ESS  
          projects can be designed and controlled to avoid grid constraints, utilities 
          should consider operating profiles (which can include operating schedules)  
          in  their feasibility studies and system impact studies.  
 
 
Note: Chapter IV  includes extensive model language in support of the above 
recommendations.  
 
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 17 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  D. Chapter V Key Takeaways  
The recommendations provided in Chapters III  and IV are based upon the BATRIES 
project’s research on the potential impacts to the grid of inadvertent export, which are laid 
out in Chapter V: Defin ing How to Address Inadvertent Export . Inadvertent export is power 
that is unintentionally exported from a DER when load drops off suddenly, such as when an electric water heater switches off, before the export control system responds to the signal to limit or stop export. Inadvertent export events generally occur in behind-the -meter 
systems. As ESS deployment grows and more systems use export control means, utilities need to understand whether these inadvertent export events could impact the grid, and if so, how they should be accounted for when evaluating export -controlled ESS. Chapter V  
surveys how current standards treat inadvertent export and provides research findings based on modeling and analysis conducted by the BATRIE S team to test the potential 
impacts of these events. To understand the range of worst -case impacts, the team 
conducted time -series analysis of an urban feeder and a rural feeder with exporting solar 
photovoltaic ( PV) systems and non -exporting storage dist ributed along the feeders.  
 
Research, Modeling, and Analysis Findings Related  
 to Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export:  
 
1. Testing indicates that open loop response times in a number of PCS products 
are significantly faster than the 30 seconds required by the UL Certification 
Requirement Decision (CRD) for PCS. These response times support the 
assertion that thermal impacts are unlikely to be a limiting factor for 
inadvertent export because both their level (110% maximum) and duration 
(typically 2-10 seconds) are below any known thresholds for concern. 
 
2. Inadvertent export is a Root Mean Square (RMS) voltage event and fits into an 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)  defined event category. 
Therefore, it is appropriate to use the short -term RMS event limit of 110% 
instead of the steady- state limit of 105%. This creates more headroom for 
inadvertent export in most feeders. 
 
3. Time -series modeling is an effective way to e valuate RMS voltage impacts 
caused by inadvertent export. 
 
4. Feeders can host more DER capacity if the DER is export -controlled. This can 
be viewed as increasing the feeder’s available hosting capacity for nameplate 
DER or as a more efficient use of existing  feeder capacity for DERs. While both 
the urban and rural feeder assessments supported this finding, the extent to 
which hosting capacity can be increased will depend on feeder 
characteristics, as well as the location and size of the exporting DER. 
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 18 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  5. DER ca pacity on the urban feeder could be doubled with export limiting 
(inadvertent export) compared to steady export, without exceeding RMS 
voltage rise limits.  
 
6. The rural feeder’s capacity for inadvertent export is very location dependent. 
The capacity to supp ort DER drops off more steeply in the longer rural feeder. 
The main limiting factors were found to be coordination of voltage regulator 
equipment operations and maintaining voltage balance between phases (not 
seen in the urban feeder).  
 
7. The value of faster control response was more apparent on the rural feeder 
than the urban feeder. This observation is based on the interactions of line 
voltage regulators with inadvertent export events. Regulators lead to more 
step changes in voltage and voltage unbala nce. This may be a limiting factor 
for export -controlled energy storage in long feeders (not seen in the urban 
feeder).  
 
8. The impact of smart inverter functions such as volt -var and volt -watt is 
unclear as these functions were not activated during simulatio n. This needs 
further investigation in the future . 
 
 
  
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 19 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  E. Chapter VI Key Takeaways  
In Chapter VI: Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and 
Other Tools, the Toolkit focuses on how grid transparency tools such as pre -application 
reports and hosting capacity analysis (HCA) can enable applicants to access information 
prior to submitting an interconnection application. Chapter V I also discusses how the HCA 
might be used in the interconnection process itself to help evaluate interconnection requests.  
Recommendations for Improving Grid Transparency  
Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools:  
 
1. Utilities should provide data on the state of the distribution system at the P oint 
of Interconnection through pre -application reports and basic distribution 
system maps. Chapter VI  provides a list of the information fields most 
commonly requested by developers. This information includes, for example, 
existing and queued generation, load profiles, and distribution system lines 
maps. Chapter VI  also describes how customers can use distribution system  
data to help inform project site selection and ESS system design and 
installation.  
 
2. HCA can serve as an informational tool to guide ESS design. For example, 
developers can use HCA results to design their ESS systems to avoid 
contributing to grid constraints by limiting charging during existing net peak 
load hours. To enable such use of HC A, regulators, developers, and utilities 
must take several important considerations into account. These include the 
fact that hosting capacity values on a map provide a snapshot in time and often 
correspond to a specific DER technology and associated control, and that they 
may not capture the latest grid or DER queue data because projects in the 
queue are considered tentative until interconnected.  
 
3. HCA can also serve as a decision -making tool in the interconnection review 
process for ESS. For example, California has required the use of HCA (called 
Integration Capacity Analysis in California) results instead of the 15% screen, 
which evaluates if total  generation on a feeder exceeds 15% of a line section’s 
peak load. Current HCA methods implemented by utilities cannot by 
themselves replace the entire screening process. However, they could help 
enable ESS to be designed in ways that address specific grid  constraints and 
enable more efficient and cost -effective DER interconnection. To unlock such 
benefits, HCAs would need to provide hourly information about grid 
constraints. Potential benefits would need to be weighed against the 
limitations of such an ana lysis to lock in an ESS design as well as the costs to 
develop and maintain these complex analyses of hourly grid constraints.  
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 20 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  F. Chapter VII Key Takeaways  
Storage interconnection faces a key barrier when it comes to project modifications. As 
projects go t hrough the interconnection process, utilities may identify system impacts that 
require distribution system upgrades. But the interconnection review process is not designed to allow a customer to undertake project design changes to avoid those impacts witho ut forfeiting their place in the interconnection queue. Chapter VII: Pathways to Allow 
for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate the 
Need for Upgrades  describes this barrier and provides recommendations on how rule 
language can be changed to accommodate the type of project modifications that an ESS system could make to avoid the need for upgrades during the interconnection process.  
 
Recommended Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the 
Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate the Need for Upgrades:  
 
1. Interconnection procedures should be revised to provide more data on the 
reasons for which a project fails screens. To ensure that the customer has 
enough information to make design decisions, the interconnection 
procedures should give as specific guidance as possible on what information 
results should convey to the interconnection applicant, including the specific 
screens that the project failed and the technical reason( s) for failure, as well 
as details about the specific system threshold or limitation causing the failure.  
 
2. Screening results should provide relevant and useful data, to enable the 
customer to ascertain exactly what changes to the DER system could allow it 
to pass the screen and avoid the need for upgrades. Chapter VII  includes a 
list of preferable screen results data. 
 
3. Impact study results should provide an analysis of potential changes to the 
DER system that could eliminate or reduce the need for upgrades. Utilities 
should provide, at a minimum, a limited analysis of alternative DER 
configurations, ideally during the normal timeframe of the study process 
(rather than requiring restudy after study results are delivered).  
 
4. Interconnection procedures should have well-documented sections that 
provide guidance o n whether and how design changes can be 
accommodated, in order to allow an interconnection applicant to undertake 
design modifications to mitigate impacts without submitting a new 
interconnection application.  
 
5. During the Supplemental Review process, additional screens are applied that 
may provide further detail on whether system upgrades are required and 
provide an opportunity to identify if modifications could address the 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 21 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  constraints. Interconnection procedures should allow for a short period of 
design cha nge and review, as necessary, to help projects move forward 
quickly with minimal effects on the queue.  
 
6. Design changes should also be permitted within the full study process. If the 
utility has already studied alternative configurations during the impact study 
process, as described above, the utility and developer would have the 
necessary information to discuss design changes. During a scoping meeting, 
the developer and utility should agree to evaluate up to three different 
options, one being the original d esign and the other two containing system 
changes.  
 
7. If the utility and developer have already evaluated design options and major 
design modifications require further study, they can be addressed through 
post-results modifications. Due to high interconnection cost estimates, even 
with the options studied per the previous recommendation, modifications to 
the DER system beyond those alternate options may be desired. As such, 
interconnection rules should include an explicit process for modifications after 
study results are delivered.  
 
 
  
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 22 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  G. Chapter VIII Key Takeaways  
Interconnection standards and guidance documents, such as the suite of Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1547TM standards, play a crucial role in ensuring 
that devices are interconnected to the grid safely and reliably. They also ensure that they can be reviewed efficiently, since the standards process enables utilities to trust device 
performance on the grid and m inimize the amount of customized review that is required. 
Chapter VIII: Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection 
Procedures takes a comprehensive look at the existing standards and identifies which 
standards are relevant to ESS operation. Chapter VIII  also provides recommendations on 
how to incorporate those standards and associated documents into interconnection 
procedures so that the procedures contain the latest a nd most relevant technical guidance 
on ESS design and performance. The project team reviewed eighty- six different standards 
and related documents for the BATRIES project. Of the eighty-six, the project team found only the IEEE 1547 series, UL 1741 and the Certification Requirement Decision (CRD) for 
Power Control System, and IEEE C62.92.6 to be relevant to ESS interconnection.  
Note: Because the recommendations related to technical standards are deeply technical, 
they do not lend themselves to a high -level summary. As such, the summary below 
includes select recommendations only. Readers are encouraged to proceed directly to Chapter VIII  to access the full set of recommendations.  
 
Recommendations for Incorporating Updated Interconnection  
Standards Into Interconnection Procedures:  
 
UL 1741 Certification Requirement Decisions for Power Control Systems:  
 
1. Interconnection applications should be revised to ask whether or not a PCS 
is included in the DER system design, and if so, require its identification.  
 
2. To ensure PCS controls are appropriately addressed, any performance 
capability should align with or reference UL 1741. Since PCS testing 
requirements are yet to be published, requirements should note that, in the 
interim, listing and certification can be fulfilled per the UL CRD for PCS. 
 
3. When interconnection procedures require certified equipment, they should 
require PCS to be certified.  
 
IEEE 1547 -2018 4.2 Reference Points  of Applicability:  
 
1. IEEE 1547 defines Reference Point of Applicability (RPA) so that it is clear at 
what physical point in the configuration of the system the requirements of 
the standard need to be met for testing, evaluation, and commissi oning. It is 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 23 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  crucial that the utility and developer agree on the location of the RPA as early 
as possible to determine the DER system design, equipment, and 
certification needs. A question should be added to the interconnection 
application allowing the customer to designate a preferred RPA, which the 
utility should review.  
 
2. The RPA could be reviewed within the Initial Review timeline along with the 
screens and, for efficiency, the screening process should be completed 
concurrently with any necessary RPA corrections being made. 
 
3. To ensure the RPA is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, 
any stated selection criteria or commissioning tests should align with or 
reference IEEE 1547 -2018.  
 
IEEE 1547 -2018 4.6.3 Execution of Mode or Parameter Changes  
 
1. To ensure DERs are appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any 
stated execution of mode or parameter change performance requirements 
should align with or reference IEEE 1547- 2018.  
 
2. If technical requirements specify the execution of mode or parameter 
changes, include a note stating that those requirements do not apply during 
islanded operations. 
 
3. If technical requirements exist that require control capabilities, include a 
note stating that those controls do not apply during islanded operation.  
 
4. Revise the interconnection application form to include language to help the 
utility understand if the project plans islanded operation. 
 
IEEE 1547 -2018 4.7 Prioritization of DER Responses : 
 
1. The interconnection evaluation process should include an understanding of 
any interactions between storage system use cases and export or import 
limits or other functions. Given the wide range of possible energy storage 
operating modes, supported modes can be prioritized and documented in 
the interconnection agreement.  
 
2. Manufacturers should list relevant provisions in equipment documentation 
to enable the above recommendation.  
 
IEEE 1547 -2018 10  Interoperability, Information Exchange, Information Models, 
and Protocols :  
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 24 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  1. To ensure interoperability of ESS is appropriately addressed by technical 
requirements, any interoperability requirements should align with or 
reference IEEE 1547 -2018.  
 
2. When an ESS uses additional parameters beyond those mentioned in IEEE 
1547, manufacturers are encouraged to make those setpoints interoperable. 
 
3. If IEEE 1547 parameters and setpoints, such as the power factor setpoint and 
operational state, are needed for ESS in charging mode, they should be 
specified as applicable to the charging  mode in technical requirements.  
 
For subclauses IEEE 1547 -2018 4.5 Cease to Energize Performance  
Requirement, 4.6.2 Capability to Limit Active Power, 4.10.3 Performance During 
Enter Service, 4.13 Exemptions for Emergency Systems and Standby DER, 5.4.2 
Voltage-Active Power Mode , and 8.2 Intentional Islanding, either or both of the 
following are recommended:  
 
1. To ensure the issue is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, 
any related performance requirement should align with or reference IEEE 
1547-2018.  
 
2. Revise the interconnection application form to give the utility specific 
information related to the issue.  
 
Grid Services:  
 
1. To provide certain grid services, ESS may need to provide functionality 
disallowed by or unaccounted for by IEEE 1547 -2018. If specific grid services 
are allowed, related technical requirements may note all exceptions for IEEE 
1547-2018 in a technical requirements document or a grid services contract.  
 
2. The interconnection application form should be revised to add a q uestion to 
flag whether or not grid services will be utilized. 
 
Effective Grounding:  
 
1. To ensure inverter-based resources are appropriately addressed by 
technical requirements, any effective grounding requirements for inverter-
based resources should align with or reference IEEE C62.92.6, IEEE 1547.2 
(once published), and IEEE 1547-2018 subclause 7.4.  
 
2. If there are references to grounding reviews in the description of the 
interconnection studies or related agreements, then interconnection 
procedures sh ould require the use of IEEE C62.92.6, IEEE 1547.2 (once 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 25 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  published), and the test data from IEEE 1547.1 -2020 for the review of inverter -
based resources. 
 
3. If the utility requires supplemental grounding, relevant guidance should be 
provided in the technical requirements document or interconnection 
handbook.  
 
4. Revise the line configuration screen (SGIP 2.2.1.6) to include new penetration 
criteria to screen for overvoltage risk. 
 
5. Introduce a new Supplemental Review screen or use a tool to determine if 
supplemental grounding is required. Additionally, an HCA that incorporates 
evaluation of temporary overvoltage risk for inverters may be used in lieu of 
the screen mentioned in recomm endation 4 above.  
 
Referencing Recent Standards in Interconnection Procedures:  
 
1. Interconnection procedures should use the most recent versions of the 
standards discussed in Chapter VIII. Updates to the procedures should 
account for the timelines associated with the adoption of new or revised 
standards e stablished by regulatory proceedings.  
 
 
  
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 26 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  H. Chapter IX Key Takeaways  
Energy storage can operate according to a predetermined schedule that includes both the 
total amount of power imported and exported as well as when the import or export occurs. This capability is not yet adequately addressed by interconnection standards or procedures. Chapter IX: Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Fixed -
Schedule DER  Operation discusses what steps need to be taken to establish the capability 
of devices to reliably control import and export according to a schedule. Chapter IX  also 
discusses how those schedules should be communicated to the utility and how they can be evaluated. 
 
Recommendations for Defining Rules and Processes  
for the Evaluation of Fixed -Schedule DER Operation:  
 
1. Standards should be developed that describe the scheduling of energy 
storage operations, especially time -specific import and export limitations. UL 
1741, the primary standard for the certification of inverter functionality, should 
be updated to address scheduled operations. In addition, it may be desirable 
to update the testing procedures specified by IEEE 1547.1 or other standards 
to validate operation i n compliance with scheduling requirements for non -
inverter or non -PCS systems. Other standards could potentially be 
developed as necessary to support scheduling apart from IEEE 1547 and 
1547.1.  
 
2. Although regulators do not have direct control or authority over the 
standards development bodies or processes, regulators can create a sense 
of urgency and expectation, such as by beginning to incorporate scheduling 
functionality into interconnection rule s with implementation dates set based 
upon standard publication. Regulators can also allow the use of equipment 
that conforms to proposed or draft standards. Finally, regulators can support 
the development of standards by convening working groups to discuss the 
use of DER schedules and the associated interconnection rules and 
requirements.  
 
Because standards often take years to be developed, Chapter IX recommends 
several interim measures:  
 
3. Regulators could actively develop or encourage the development of field 
test programs to validate the performance of a deployed system to a fixed 
operating schedule or profile.  
 
4. Regulators can also help to inform the standards development process, 
while creating a more immediate pathway for scheduled operation of ESS in 
their state, by developing their own interim testing protocol that can be 
 
 
Executive Summary  
 
 27 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  applied while national standards are u nder development.  
 
5. With or without any of the verification strategies described in Chapter IX , 
monitoring for compliance with a schedule can be achieved with equipment 
that is commonly available today. Chapter IX  describes several such 
monitoring mechanisms. 
 
6. While standards are being developed, vendor attestations may be an 
avenue to provide utilities with some performance assurance. This is the 
simplest method of verification and manufacturers that have compliant 
products can likely turn around signed attesta tions in much less time than 
typical certifications through national testing labs, although there are risks 
associated with this approach.  
 
Chapter IX also discusses the development of methodologies for the efficient 
evaluation of storage with proposed op erating schedules:  
 
7. To start studying complex fixed operating profiles in the context of time -
specific feeder conditions, it will be necessary for some utilities to collect 
granular feeder load data for comparison with the proposed operating 
profile. The data can come from ma ny sources, including advanced metering 
infrastructure, substation metering, Supervisory Control and Data 
Acquisition ( SCADA ), distribution transformer metering, billing departments, 
or other sources. 
 
8. In addition to addressing utility data needs, the tech niques for screening and 
studying projects with operating schedules require further development. In 
order to enable storage to provide valuable time -specific grid services, 
regulators should either proactively convene working group discussions or 
encourage  others to do so in order to work through the various issues with 
utility and DER stakeholders. 
 
Finally, Chapter IX discusses establishing standardized formats for 
communicating operating schedules:  
 
9. Regulators should convene a process to establish a standard template for 
the communication of operating profiles. They will need to consider which 
data points are necessary based upon the ways utilities will actually study 
projects. Chapter IX  includes a sample template that can serve as a starting 
point.  
 
 
Ex
ecutive Summary 
28 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  BATRIES is led by the Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC), in collaboration with a 
team of partners1—collectively, the Storage Interconnection Committee (STORIC) — which 
includes: 
1.Electric Power Research Institute
2.Solar Energy Industries Association
3.California Solar & Storage Association
4. New Hampshire Electric Cooperative, Inc.
5. PacifiCorp6.Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger, LLP
Th
e BATRIES project team looks forward to continuing to engage with stakeholders to 
implement the solutions recommended in this Toolkit.  
1 Note: The Energy Storage Association (ESA) was a partner on the BATRIES project through December 2021, before 
merging with the American Clean Power Association (ACP) in January 2022. ACP is not a BATRIES partner.  
 I. Introduction
 
 
Introduction  
 
 29 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  I. Introduction  
Energy storage systems (storage or ESS) are crucial to enabling the transition to a clean 
energy economy and a low -carbon grid. Storage is unique from other types of distributed 
energy resources (DERs) in several respects that present both challenges and opportunities in ho w storage systems are interconnected and operated. Although many 
jurisdictions are taking steps toward integrating storage, substantial technical and regulatory barriers remain to the rapid integration of ESS onto the grid, including and especially related to interconnection.  
Well-designed interconnection rules that effectively address the unique operating 
capabilities and benefits of storage are essential to the rapid and cost -efficient integration 
of storage onto the grid in a safe and reliable manner. The Building a Technically Reliable 
Interconnection Evolution for Storage (BATRIES) project  provides recommended solutions 
and resources for eight critical storage interconnect ion barriers, to enable safer, more cost -
effective, and efficient grid integration of storage in this Toolkit and Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage and Solar-Plus -Storage  (Toolkit).  
A growing number of states have adopted ambitious climate and clean energy mandates, from renewable generation and electrification targets to greenhouse gas reduction goals.
2 
At the same time, residential, commercial, and industrial customers3 are investing in 
storage for the economic and environmental benefits it provides.4  
As renewable energy deployment grows both in front of and behind the meter, individual 
customers and electric distribution system operators are likely to increasingly rely on storage for the energy management services it provides. For example, storage paired with solar can enable managed import and export. This can have benefits for both the customer and the grid. Better timing of the use of distributed resources can minimize the cost of solar interconnection by reducing t he need for grid upgrades.
5 Utility-scale storage can 
support resource management in states with high wind and solar penetration by mitigating 
the intermittency of renewable generation.6 New federal policies are also likely to 
incentivize the increased a doption of storage, particularly through the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (FERC) Order 2222, which is intended to pave the way for 
 
2 See, e.g. , National Conference of State Legislatures, State Renewable Portfolio Standards and Goals  (last accessed 
November 15, 2021), https://www.ncsl.org/research/energy/renew able-portfolio -standards.aspx . 
3 For ease of reference, this document sometimes uses the broad term “interconnection customers.”  
4 U.S. Energy Information Administration, Battery Storage in the United States: An Update on Market Trends  (Aug. 
2021), https://www.eia.gov/analysis/studies/electricity/batterystorage/pdf/battery_storage_2021.pdf . For solar -plus-
storage data, see  Galen Barbose, Salma Elmall ah, and Will Gorman, Behind -the-Meter Solar+Storage: Market Data and 
Trends , Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (July 2021), https://eta -
publications. lbl.gov/sites/default/files/btm_solarstorage_trends_final.pdf . 
5 See, e.g., Thomas Bowen and Carishma Gokhale -Welch, Behind -the-Meter Battery Energy Storage: Frequently Asked 
Questions , National Renewable Energy Laboratory (Aug. 2021),  pp. 2- 4, https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy21osti/79393.pdf .  
6 Id. 
 
 
Introduc tion 
 
 30 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  aggregated DERs —including storage —on the distribution system to compete in wholesale 
markets.7 
Storage differs from other types of DERs, such as solar and wind generation, in several key 
aspects that shape the way it is interconnected to, and operated on, the grid. For example, 
storage can serve as both generation and load, either discharging to or charging from the 
grid or a paired solar system or other generation source. In addition, storage systems can 
be designed to control when and how much they export to, or import from, the grid, and thus can provide cost and energy management benefits to customers and the grid. These operating capabilities make storage a valuable asset, and also introduce complexities in the interconnection process as regulators must strike a balance between maximizing the energy and economic benefits of storage from a customer perspective, and th e need to 
maintain safe and reliable service from a utility perspective. 
In addition, storage has an important role to play in enabling states to achieve their climate 
and energy goals and more efficient operation of the grid. Behind-the -meter storage can 
increase resilience and reduce energy costs for customers; allow utilities to defer infrastructure investments necessary to serve peak demand; and support the integration of more renewable energy resources, such as by providing frequency regulation and mitigating the variable output of renewables.
8 
In response, several states have updated, or are currently in the process of updating, their DER interconnection rules to include storage and to enable its more time - and cost -efficient 
integration onto the grid ,
 which is critical for scaling storage deployment. To date, Arizona, 
California, Colorado, the District of Columbia, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, and Virginia have DER interconnection rules that facilitate the interconnec tion of ESS.
9 As of December 2021, Illinois, Massachusetts, Maine, and New 
 
7 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Docket No. RM18-9 -000, Order No. 2222, Participation of Distributed Energy 
Resource Aggregations in Markets Operated by Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System 
Operators (September 17, 2020), https://www.ferc.gov/sites/default/files/2020 -09/E -1_0.pdf . See also  Docket No. 
RM18 -9-000, Order No. 2222- A, Order Addressing Arguments Raised on Rehearing, Setting Aside Prior Order in Part, 
and Clarifying Order in Part (March 18, 2021), https://www.ferc.gov/media/e -1-rm18-9 -002 , and Order No. 2222-B, Order 
Addressing Arguments Raised on Rehearing, Setting Aside in Part and Cla rifying in Part Prior Order (June 17, 2021), 
https://cms.ferc.gov/media/e-4 -061721.  
8 International Renewable Energy Agency, Behind -the-Meter Batteries: Innovation Landscape Brief  (2019),  pp. 10 -13, 
https://www.irena.org/ -/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2019/Sep/IRENA_BTM_Batteries_2019.pdf .  
9 AZ Administrative Code § R14-2 (Feb.  25, 2020); CA Pub. Util. Comm., Southern California Edison, Rule 21; DC Mun. 
Regs. tit. 15, chapter 40 (Jan. 25, 2019); HI Pub. Util. Comm., Rules 22-24 (Feb. 20, 2018); Code MD Regs. 20.50.09 
(April 20, 2020); MN Pub. U til. Comm., Dkt. E -999/CI -16-521, O rder Establishing Updated Interconnection Process and 
Standard Interconnection Agreement, Attachment: Minnesota Distributed Energy Resources Interconnection Process (August 13, 2018) (MN DIP); NV Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV Power Co. Rule 15 (April 11, 2018); NY Pub. Service 
Comm., Standardized Interconnection Requirements and Application Process For New Distributed Generators and Energy Storage Systems 5 MW or Less Connected in Parallel with Utility Distribution Systems (March 2021); NC Util. 
Comm.,  Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, North Carolina Interconnection Procedures (Aug. 20, 2021), https://d esitecoreprod -
cd.azureedge.net/_/media/pdfs/for -your -home/212287/ncip -approved -oct-15-
2020.pdf?la=en&rev=cd85b126dd0345019917e2464beb861b; 20 VA Admin. Code 5 -314 (Oct. 15, 2020).  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 31 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Mexico are in the process of revising their interconnection rules to facilitate the 
interconnection of ESS.10  
Interconnection procedures serve as the “rules of the road” for DER integration onto the electric grid. They include rules relating to the process, cost, and timeline for interconnection, and can include related documents, such as template forms and 
applications. The procedures for distribution grids are typically spelled o ut in rules or tariffs 
approved by state public utility commissions (PUCs). In developing their interconnection 
procedures, many states have relied on one of two model rules: the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) Small Generator Interconnection Procedures (SGIP) , and 
the Interstate Renewable Energy Council’s (IREC) Model Interconnection Procedures (IREC 
2019 Model) . In addition to these resources, state interconnection procedures may also 
reference technical interconnection standards, including, but not limited to the Institute of Electric and Electronic Engineers’ 1547-2018 standard (IEEE 1547- 2018
TM), IEEE Standard 
for Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with Associated 
Electric Power System Interfaces.  
The design of interconnection procedures can have a significant impact on the efficiency and cost -effectiveness of DER integration, including project viability.
11 Interconnection 
procedures that are not tailored to the jurisdiction’s DER market condition s—such as when 
the speed of DER deployment outstrips the ability of utilities to keep pace with processing 
applications or the ability of the grid to accommodate higher penetrations of DERs— can 
result in significant queue backlogs or grid upgrade fees that  are too high for the market 
to bear. On the other hand, interconnection procedures that are designed to successfully 
meet the demands of the DER market can facilitate the more rapid and efficient integration 
of DERs.  
While a number of states have taken in itial steps to ease the path for storage 
interconnection, the majority of PUCs and utilities have yet to reform their interconnection 
rules to be inclusive of storage. The process of revising interconnection rules and tariffs is, 
more often than not, lengt hy and resource -intensive, and requires a high level of 
procedural and technical expertise. The challenge is compounded by the fact that technical standards applicable to storage continue to evolve, and many of the solutions to 
ease storage interconnection  involve cutting -edge practices and procedures that have not 
yet been widely adopted. In short, there is a pressing need for guidance and 
 
10 CO Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 21I -0321E, Investigation Into the Interconnectio n of Distributed Energy Resources (July 12, 
2021); IL Com. Comm, Dkt. 10 -0700. Second Notice Order  (Aug. 12, 2021) (proposing to revise IL Admin. Code tit. 83, § 
466); MA Dept. of Pub. Util., Dkt. D.P.U. 19 -55, Massachusetts Joint Stakeholders consensus re visions to the Standards 
for Interconnection of Distributed Generation tariff (“DG Interconnection Tariff”) to address the interconnection of 
energy storage systems (Feb. 26, 2020); NM Pub. Reg. Comm., Dkt. 21 ‐00266 ‐UT, Rulemaking to Repeal and Replace 
Com mission Rule 17.9.568 NMAC, Interconnection Standards for Electric Utilities, and the Associated Interconnection 
Manual (De. 2021).  
11 See, e.g., Ivan Penn, Old Power Gear Is Slowing Use of Clean Energy and Electric Cars, New York Times (Oct. 8, 
2021), https://www.nytimes.com/2021/10/28/business/energy -environment/electric -grid -overload -solar -ev.html .  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 32 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  implementable resources on storage interconnection that regulators, utilities, and other 
stakeholders can use to updat e their respective state interconnection procedures.  
The BATRIES project helps to explain the challenges and presents solutions to several key technical and regulatory barriers to the interconnection of storage on the distribution system.
12 BATRIES is a t hree -year effort funded by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Solar 
Energy Technologies Office. It brings together stakeholders from all relevant interest groups, including storage and DER developers, utilities, state regulatory commissions and staff, national research laboratories, and storage technology manufacturers to identify the critical challenges to ESS interconnection and present effective solutions as part of this Toolkit and Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage and Solar- Plus-Storage  
(Toolkit). 
BATRIES is led by the Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC), in collaboration with a team of partners —collectively, the Storage Interconnection Committee (STORIC), which 
includes:
13 
● Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)  
● Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA)  
● California Solar & Storage Association (CALSSA)  
● New Hampshire Electric Cooperative, Inc. (NHEC)  
● PacifiCorp  
● Shute, Mihaly & Weinberger, LLP  
Working collaboratively, and with input from external stakeholders representing PUC regulatory staff, utilities, developers, and DER associations,
14 STORIC developed an initial 
list of nearly forty storage interconnection challenges that encompasses technical, 
financing, and procedural issues. To develop a prioritized list of barriers that t he BATRIES 
project could address within the project resources and timeframe, STORIC undertook a screening process that evaluated the initial set of barriers through several lenses, including 
whether other stakeholders are already working toward developing solutions on the issues; whether solutions would result in reduced costs and time for storage 
interconnection in furtherance of the project’s objectives; and whether the issues 
represent a timely challenge that regulators, utilities, and developers are currently facing 
(as compared to a theoretical barrier that could pose a challenge in the more distant future).  
 
12 The BATRIES project is focused on distribution-interconnected storage, whether ESS is interconnected in front of or 
behind the meter, and irrespective of system size. BATRIES does not address transmission interconnection issues.  
13 Note: The Energy Storage Association (ESA) was a partner on the BATRIES project through December 2021, before 
merging with the American Clean Power Association (ACP) in January 2022. ACP is not a BATRIES partner.  
14 STORIC hosted two half -day workshops and made several presentation s to gather input from stakeholders, and 
solicited peer review from subject matter experts of the proposed barriers to include in the Toolkit. A more detailed 
description of the stakeholder engagement process can be found in BATRIES Storage Interconnection Committee, 
Roadmap for the Development of a Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage and Solar -Plus -
Storage  (March 2022 ), p. 7, https://energystorageinterconnection.org/roadmap -for-the-development -of-a-toolkit--
guidance -for-the-interconnection-of -energy -storage -and -solar -plus- storage/ .  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 33 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  As a result, STORIC identified the following eight priority storage interconnection barriers, 
which are included in the Toolkit: 
● Lack of inclusion of storage in interconnection rules, and the lack of clarity as to whether and how existing interconnection rules (and related documents, such as application forms and agreements) apply to storage systems (Chapter II ) 
● Lack of inclusion of acceptable methods that can be used for controlling export of limited-and non -export systems in interconnection rules ( Chapter III)   
● Evaluation of non - and limited- export systems based on unrea listic operating 
assumptions that lead to overestimated grid impacts ( Chapter IV ) 
● Lack of clarity regarding the impacts of inadvertent export from limited- and non -
export systems and the lack of a uniform specification for ex port control 
equipment response times to address inadvertent export ( Chapter V ) 
● Lack of information about the distribution grid and its constraints that can inform 
where and how to interconnect storage ( Chapter VI ) 
● Lack of ability to make system design changes (other than downsizing the system) 
to address grid impacts and avoid upgrades during the interconnection review process (Chapter VII ) 
● States that have not inc orporated updated standards into their interconnection 
procedures and technical requirements (Chapter VIII ) 
● Lack of defined rules and processes for the evaluation of operating schedules (Chapte r IX) 
 
The above eight barriers were selected based upon the collective experience of STORIC members who have engaged on these issues within regulatory proceedings and research and development contexts, and with input from external subject matter experts based on their own on -the-ground experience. The barriers are all at play within regulatory 
proceedings across the U.S., as further described in the Toolkit chapters below, highlighting the need for guidance and resources for regulators, developers, and utilities. 
There are many more storage interconnection challenges than the BATRIES project could 
address within the project timeframe and resources.
15 To facilitate the future development 
of solutions related to barriers not included in BATRIES, the project t eam provides a list of 
the unaddressed barriers in Appendix A  for consideration by other stakeholders.  
 
15 For example, based on the scoping work described above, the project team identified interconnection challenges 
associated with non-  and limited -export as being high priority. As such, while there can also be challenges with 
interconnecting non-importing projects, the project team focused on developing recommendations related to 
requirements for and evaluation of non- and limited -export systems.  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 34 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The recommendations included in the Toolkit are focused on storage interconnected to 
radial distribution systems,16 whether ESS is interconnected in front of or behind the meter, 
and generally irrespective of system size (though the chapters below note instances in which specific discussions or recommendations have more limited applicability). Recommendations are desig ned for use in interconnection procedures for the distribution 
system. Nationally, interconnection standards are quite consistent structurally, with most following the structures of either the FERC’s SGIP or IREC’s Model Interconnection Procedures. These t wo models utilize a largely parallel structure and have similar 
interconnection screens and technical requirements. In order to develop model language for interconnection standards that can be adopted by states across the country, BATRIES generally uses th e language from FERC SGIP to illustrate recommended revisions.
17 These 
recommendations should be easy to translate to other rules that utilize different formats.  
Energy storage is a critical piece of the clean energy puzzle and solutions for enabling the 
more rapid and efficient integration of storage will continue to develop. The BATRIES 
project team looks forward to continuing dialogue with stakeholders on the storage 
interconnection barriers included in the Toolkit as well as the evolving universe of ot her 
storage interconnection challenges and opportunities. 
 
                              Toolkit Quick Reference Guide  
 
Chapter II -  Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage : 
Provides recommendations on how to ensure interconnection rules apply to ESS 
and recommends definitions for key terms that will be needed for ESS 
interconnection review. 
 
Chapter III - Requirements for Limited - and Non-Export Controls : Includes 
recommendations for including defined acceptable export controls that maintain 
safety and reliability in interconnection procedures. 
 
Chapter IV - Evaluation of Non-Export and Limited -Export Syst ems During the 
Screening or Study Process : Offers recommendations on how interconnection 
screening and study processes can be updated to recognize export controls.  
 
Chapter V - Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export: Surveys how current 
standards treat inadvertent export and details the results of research conducted 
to test its potential grid impacts.  
 
 
16 Some recommendations may also appl y to networked distribution systems. However, due to the technical 
differences between radial and networked systems, and the fact that radial systems prevail in the U.S., the project team 
focused primarily on radial systems.  
17 Note that BATRIES is not focu sed on recommending revisions to SGIP itself; rather it uses SGIP as a common 
reference point for model language that could be folded into individual states’ interconnection standards.  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 35 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Chapter VI - Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses 
and Other Tools : Discusses how grid transparency tools, such as pre -application 
reports and hosting capacity maps, can help improve interconnection of DERs by 
assisting with good site selection and project design.  
 
Chapter VII - Pathways t o Allow for System Design Changes During the 
Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate the Need for Upgrades : Includes 
recommendations on how rule language can be revised to accommodate ESS 
project modifications during the interconnection process. 
 
Chapter VIII - Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into 
Interconnection Procedures : Provides recommendations on how to incorporate 
technical standards, such as the suite of IEEE 1547 standards, into interconnection 
procedures. 
 
Chapter IX - Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating 
Schedules : Discusses what steps need to be taken to allow devices to reliably 
control import and export according to a schedule.  
How To Use the Toolkit to Address Challenges  
The Toolkit is meant to assist state regulators, utilities, and other stakeholders in 
addressing interconnection barriers related to the above topics. The 
recommendations and model language provided in the Toolkit can be used in 
regulatory proceedings and working groups to update interconnection procedures 
and practices to account for ESS and its unique capabilities on the grid. In its 
recommended model language revisions, the Toolkit uses FERC SGIP as a starting 
point (and provides model language for related forms, such as interconnection 
application forms that customers may complete in online portals), but states should 
easily be able to incorporate any changes into their own interconnection rules—
whether they are base d on FERC SGIP, IREC’s 2019 Model Rules, or any other 
model language.  
Recommended model language is presented in italics. Entirely new model 
language ( i.e., not revisions to existing text) is presented only in italics. Revisions to 
existing model language  are presented in strikethrough  (for deletions) and 
underline  (for additions) .  
Note that terms and definitions are sometimes repeated throughout chapters of the 
Toolkit for readers who may wish to read a particular chapter without reviewing the 
prior chap ters. 
Considerations for States or Utilities Experiencing Lower Energy Storage Market 
Penetration or With More Limited Resources for DER- Related Investments  
The solutions provided in the Toolkit are intended to have broad applicability, but 
some may be less applicable in jurisdictions that have limited storage market 
penetration (or prospects for near -term market growth), or for utilities with fewer 
 
 
Introduction  
 
 36 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  resources to invest in the staffing, information technology, or other tools necessary 
for deploying the solutions ( e.g., smaller municipal or cooperative utilities). In such 
instances, regulators and utilities can prioritize the Toolkit solutions as follows:  
● Start by reviewing Chapters II, III, and IV  to understand how to enable the full 
capabilities of ESS and how to screen for inadvertent export impacts. 
(Chapter V  provides more information on inadvertent export.)  
● Pursuant to Chapter VI , consider whether any of the recommended grid 
transparency tools align with both the needs of interconnection applicants 
and the utility’s resources and capabilities. Review Chapter VIII  to 
understand how updated technical standards can enable additional ESS 
functionalities and maximize the benefits to both customers and grid 
operators.  
 
A. Key Features of Energy Storage Systems That Impact 
Interconnection Review  
To understand why each of the topics in the Toolkit chapters have been identified as 
barriers to the safe, reliable, and efficient interconnection of ESS, it is important to explain some of key features of ESS that distinguish it from the DERs that have historically been interconnected to the distribution system. This brief introduction to these concepts will assist in navigating the Toolkit.   
1. Understanding ESS System Capabilities and Behavior  
Perhaps the single most defining feature of ESS, whether installed alone or co -located with 
another DER, is that  it offers a level of control that was not often available or utilized by 
other DERs. ESS can control how much power is exported to the grid (or imported from the grid or a co -located DER) at any one time. ESS can act as a purely non -exporting resource, 
a full-export resource, or a limited-export resource that limits export to a specified 
magnitude that may be less than the total amount of power the resource is theoretically capable of exporting at any one time. In addition to introducing greater levels of control over the magnitude  of import and export, ESS can also control when  a DER system imports 
or exports power. For example, an ESS may be able to limit export during periods of low demand or excess generation and instead ramp up export during periods of  peak demand 
or low generation. If properly evaluated in screens and studies, such control flexibility can better serve energy needs while also allowing more DERs to interconnect without triggering the need for upgrades.  
To illustrate this more specificall y, it is helpful to consider just one example of how ESS 
systems may be used in balance with other DERs on the grid. In some areas of utility grids across the country, there is starting to be abundant solar energy produced during the middle of the afternoo n—enough that at some times during the year there may be more 
energy than demand. Inversely, there are also certain periods of the day when there is 
 
 
Introduction  
 
 37 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  insufficient clean energy being produced to serve load, particularly in the early evening 
hours when solar is no longer generating, but demand on the system remains relatively high. ESS can play an important role during these periods by importing (or storing) power during those periods of abundance. This can be done by charging from an onsite solar system, causing the solar system to cease export of all or some of its energy while the ESS charges. Or the ESS can charge from the grid itself, essentially utilizing the excess solar energy being produced elsewhere on the system. Then, when the grid conditions shift and more energy is once again needed to serve demand, the ESS can discharge power either onto the grid, or to serve onsite load such that the overall energy demand on the grid is reduced. This behavior can also be optimized in response to seasonal variatio ns in peak 
demand.  
While this example illustrates the significant flexibility benefits that ESS can add to the distribution system, the manner in which any one ESS will be operated depends on a variety of factors including market conditions, rate structures, and grid constraints and opportunities. In addition to external energy market factors, behind-the -meter systems are 
also designed to serve specific customer needs. The fixed rates or market signals that DER systems may be responding to are typically de signed to incentivize the export of energy 
when it is needed the most and to deter energy export when there is less demand. And, the amount of energy needed (i.e. , the peak and minimum load) often closely aligns with 
when a feeder or substation will experience technical constraints ( i.e., if there is low load, 
less generation can be accommodated without triggering a thermal or voltag e constraint 
than would be the case during a period of higher load). However, rates and market signals are rarely crafted on a  feeder or substation basis. Thus, each location will have unique 
characteristics that may mean that grid constraints do not necessarily correspond neatly to the rate or market incentives that ESS may be responding to.  
Hence, the purpose of the interconne ction review process is to evaluate the grid 
conditions at the particular Point of Interconnection
18 for each project to determine whether 
the proposed DER will require grid upgrades in order to operate without causing reliability impacts to the distribution system. This review is largely independent from the rate structure or market program that a DER may be participating in. Whether a proposed 
project will require upgrades depends upon how and when it will be operated as well as 
the particular grid condit ions at the proposed Point of Interconnection.  
 
2. Changing Existing Interconnection Assumptions  
Presently, most interconnection rules permit, or even require, utilities to evaluate ESS assuming that the full nameplate capacity of ESS will be exported at all times, and that ESS 
co-located with solar will simultaneously export at all times. These assumptions are 
extreme for a number of reasons. First, storage will never export continuously ( i.e., never 
ceasing to export during its operation) because it has to be charged at some point. Second, while customers often prefer to have flexibility to operate when and how they choose, 
 
18 Point of Interconnection, as defined similarly to SGIP, is the point where the Interconnection Facilities connect with 
the Distribution Provider's Distribution System. This is also referred to as the Point of Common Coupling (PCC) in 
technical standards like IEEE 1547.  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 38 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  there are currently no known reasons for a customer or system owner to choose to operate 
a system in that manner. Absent a rate structure that is intended to encourage maximum 
export, there would be little reason to do so in order to serve customer load onsite, and the distribution upgrade costs alone would be a significant deterrent. However, despite the practical reasons w hy this behavior is unlikely, utilities need evidence of a reliable 
physical solution that prevents this behavior in order to alter their interconnection review practices and to avoid overassessment of impacts. 
The good news is that there are multiple meth ods available to reliably control export such 
that a project can safely be evaluated as either a non -export (zero export) or limited -export 
(maximum export value) project:
19 
● A non -export ESS20 is one that implements advanced controls to forbid itself from 
exporting to the grid. It may be charged either by onsite generation ( e.g., solar) or 
from the grid. A non -exporting system may be utilized to meet tariff compliance 
(such as n et energy meteri ng, or NEM) or to align with interconnection pathways for 
non-exporting systems. 
● A limited -export ESS  is one that implements controls to set maximum export power 
to a specified magnitude lower than the full nameplate capacity. Such a system can 
export to t he grid and can serve onsite load during discharging. While charging, 
either the grid or onsite generator can power the ESS. Depending on the intended use case and how much backfeed the grid can accommodate, the system is designed to allow a certain level of export.  
As noted above, interconnection review has typically been conducted assuming that the proposed project will be exporting its entire potential output 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year, or that it will not be exporting power at all. Some state interconnection procedures, such as those in Arizona, California, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, and Nevada have long recognized the existence of non -exporting systems and have provided 
for a slightly different, and typically more efficient, review process for non -export systems.
21 
However, FERC SGIP and states that have followed that model, such as North Carolina and Ohio, typically have no mention of non -exporting systems or guidance for how they should 
be reviewed.  
Over time, interconnection procedures have started to acknowledg e that solar systems 
are incapable of producing power when the sun is not shining, and interconnection review 
in some places has thus recognized that output will differ between day and night. However, the assessment usually relies on a set of fixed hourly assumptions ( i.e., solar production 
 
19 When referring to both non -export and limited -export systems in this document, we use the term “export -controlled.”  
20 Non-export ESS is also referred to as “Import Only Mode” in the UL 1741 Certification Requirement Decision for 
Power Control Systems. As defined there, the “ESS may import active power from the Area EPS for charging purposes 
but shall not export active po wer from the ESS to the Area EPS.”  
21 AZ Administrative Code § R14-2 -2623(B); CA Pub. Util. Comm., Southern California Edison, Rule 21, § G.1.i (Screen I); 
HI Pub. Util. Comm., Rule 22; IL Admin. Code tit. 83, § 466.80(c); Iowa Admin. Code r. 199.45.7(3); C ode MD Regs. 
20.50.09.11(C) -(D); NV Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV Power Co. Rule 15 § I.  
 
 
Introduction  
 
 39 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  from 10 am to 4 pm).22 Furthermore, the concept of a limited-export system ( i.e., one that 
uses software or hardware to limit export to a non -zero value) is new and has only begun 
to be recognized by interconnection procedures in the last few years as interest in ESS 
capabilities has grown.  
Since the controllable nature of ESS is critical to its ability to provide energy services, meet 
customer needs, and avoid or mitigate grid impacts, interconnection procedures will ne ed 
to include greater recognition of export control in the screening and study process. Without this capability, ESS will be assumed to create grid impacts that might be avoided, 
which will increase the cost of ESS deployment and also increase the cost of other DERs 
that could rely on ESS to help mitigate grid impacts. This Toolkit focuses on the technical standards and procedural modifications that are necessary for interconnection rules to 
evolve to align with ESS capabilities while also ensuring safety a nd reliability.  
 
 
 
22 See, e.g., MN Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. E -999/CI -16-521, Order Establishing Updated Interconnection Process and 
Standard Interconnection Agreement, Attachment: Minnesota Distributed Energy Resources Interconnection Process, § 
3.4.4.1.1 (Aug. 13, 2018) (MN DIP) (“Solar photovoltaic (PV) generation systems with no battery storage use daytime 
minimum load (i.e., 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. for fixed panel systems and 8 a.m. to 6  p.m. for PV systems utilizing tracking 
systems), while all other generation uses absolute minimum load.”).  
 II. Updating Interconnection Procedures
    to be Inclusive of Storage
 
 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  
 
 40 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of 
Storage  
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  
Two of the most elementary barriers to energy storage system interconnection are the lack 
of inclusion of storage in interconnection rules,23 and the lack of clarity as to whether and 
how existing interconnection rules (and related documents, such as application forms and agreements) apply to storage systems. In many jurisdictions, energy storage systems are 
not explicit ly included under the definition of eligible facilities. For example, the 
interconnection rules in Florida, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Washington do not currently 
include ESS in the definition of eligible facilities.
24 In addition, applicable interconnection  
rules do not always adequately reflect the operating capabilities of ESS, which may limit 
the beneficial and flexible services that storage can provide to the grid. These factors can 
pose a barrier to timely and cost -efficient interconnection and project financing.  
Regulatory certainty is critical in the interconnection process. When customers or developers submit interconnection applications, they have likely already expended 
significant time and resources on project development, including site and custo mer 
acquisition. Uncertainty and lack of clarity can lead to greater perceived or actual risk, which can impact a project’s ability to secure financing and may lead to more speculative 
projects that never reach interconnection. Conversely, greater clarity on how 
interconnection rules apply to storage systems —including the processes, time 
requirements, and costs involved— can allow developers to build those elements into their 
project design. This can reduce the additional delays of restudies or disputes in t he 
interconnection process and benefit both utilities and interconnection customers. 
While ESS can be, and is, interconnected in jurisdictions that do not explicitly include 
storage in their interconnection procedures, the lack of storage -specific rules ca n cause 
delays or increased expenses throughout the interconnection process, which can increase 
project soft costs. The lack of storage -specific rules can also reduce the ability of grid 
operators and storage developers to take advantage of the grid support functionalities inherent to storage. As described above, incorporating storage into interconnection rules 
provides greater clarity and certainty for customers and developers, utilities, and 
regulators. Such certainty will help facilitate the financing of  projects that include ESS and 
can enable more cost -effective and efficient operation of ESS and the distribution grid. This 
is especially true when relevant provisions for import/export controls and other operating 
capabilities are also included in the in terconnection rules.  
 
23 Jurisdictions use a wide variety of terms to describe the basic rules that govern the interconnection process. They 
can be called interconnection procedures, standards, rules, tariffs, regulations, or other terms. This document will 
typically use the terms “interconnection rules” or “procedures” to refer to the documents typically adopted by 
jurisdictions, similar to the FERC SGIP or California’s Rule 21. The term “interconnection standard” will refer to formal 
standards adopted by bodies such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).  
24 FL Admin. Code r. 25- 6.065; NH Admin. R. PUC 900; OH Admin. Code 4901:1 -22; WA Admin. Code 480 -108. 
 
 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  
 
 41 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  B. Recommendations  
As a starting point, jurisdictions should explicitly include and define ESS as an eligible 
facility under their interconnection rules. In addition, jurisdictions should revise and/or 
adopt definitions in their intercon nection procedures to efficiently and effectively enable 
ESS deployment. For example, this can include defined terms which, if absent or not drafted to recognize the unique operating characteristics of storage, can result in barriers to efficient ESS inter connection and operation.  
The project team has not attempted to completely harmonize the definitions in IEEE 1547-2018 with those found in interconnection procedures that follow the SGIP and IREC 2019 Model structure. While aligning the procedure’s definitions with those found in I EEE 1547 -
2018 would promote standardization, doing so would require structural changes to most parts of the SGIP and IREC 2019 Model. The need for and usage of many of these terms are described in more depth in subsequent chapters.  
 
1. Applicability and D efinitions of DER, Generating Facility, and ESS  
Interconnection procedures should define the term ESS and clearly state that they apply 
to the interconnection of new standalone ESS, as well as ESS paired with other generators, e.g., solar photovoltaic (PV)  systems. Several jurisdictions have started this process by 
defining ESS in their procedures.
25 The following definition for ESS uses the structure of 
the definition of ESS found in interconnection standards and guidelines, including IEEE 
1547-2018 and P1 547.9. This definition is technology agnostic and should allow for a range 
of different energy storage types:  
Energy Storage System  or ESS means a mechanical, electrical, or 
electrochemical means to store and release electrical energy, and its associated 
interconnection and control equipment. For the purposes of these Interconnection Procedures, an Energy Storage System can be considered part of a DER or a DER in whole that operates in parallel with the distribution system.  
 After defining ESS, interconnect ion procedures should explicitly allow ESS to interconnect 
using the procedures. Most interconnection procedures define upfront which systems the 
rules apply to and are eligible for review, and utilize a defined term to reference those 
eligible facilities. For example, FERC SGIP uses the term “Small Generating Facility” and 
the IREC 2019 Model uses the term “Generating Facility.” Since the technologies applying for interconnection have evolved, particularly with energy storage and even electric vehicles now  applying to interconnect, the term generating facility does not quite capture 
the scope of projects that may need to apply. Defining a term that includes all of the different types of facilities that can use the procedures is the most straightforward way to 
 
25 Code MD Regs. 20.50.09.02(B)(14); DCMR § 4099; MN TIIR at 11; NV Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV Power Co. 
Rule 15 § B; NY SIR at 37.  
 
 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  
 
 42 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  help facilitate ESS interconnection. For example, Minnesota defines the term “Distributed 
Energy Resource” and allows any DER to use the procedures to interconnect. The term “Facility” could also be used with the same definition proposed for DER below: 
Distributed Energy Resource or DER  means the equipment used by an 
interconnection customer to generate and/or store electricity that operates in 
parallel with the electric distribution system. A DER may include but is not limited 
to an electric generator and/or Energy Storage System, a prime mover, or combination of technologies with the capability of injecting power and energy into the electric distribution system, which also includes the interconnection equipment required to safely interconnect the facility with the distribution system.  
 
The applicability section, e.g., section I.A of the IREC 2019 Model, would read:  
These Interconnection Procedures are applicable to all state -jurisdictional 
interconnections of Distributed Energy Resources.  
Most interconnection procedures today use the term Generating Facility instead of DER. 
Another approach to authorizing ESS is to modify the definition of Generating Facility to include ESS, and/or to modify the applicability section of the interconnection procedures to reflect that it includes ESS. Wh ile using the term DER is recommended because it is the 
most straightforward way to explicitly allow ESS to use the procedures, the project team provides the following alternative based on the IREC 2019 Model, which uses Generating Facility: 
Generating Facility means the equipment used by an Interconnection Customer 
to generate, store, manage, interconnect, and monitor electricity. A Generating Facility includes the interconnection equipment required to safely interconnect 
the facility with th e distribution system.  
In this alternative, the applicability section, e.g. , section I.A of the IREC 2019 Model, would 
read:  
These Interconnection Procedures are applicable to all state -jurisdictional 
interconnections of Generating Facilities, including E nergy Storage Systems.  
If selecting this alternative approach, drafters should ensure that the definition of 
Generating Facility includes ESS, otherwise in many places throughout the interconnection procedures it will be unclear if the procedures apply to ESS.  
 
2. Definitions of Power Control System and Related Terms  
As is discussed further in Chapters III and IV, many ESS systems will be designed to control 
or manage export. Interconnection pro cedures thus need to recognize and define both 
 
 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  
 
 43 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  non-export and limited-export capabilities. Some interconnection procedures today 
already define non -export, but few have recognized limited-export specifically. In addition, 
many of the DERs installed going f orward are likely to use a device called a Power Control 
System (PCS) to limit the export of energy to the distribution system. The PCS may be used 
alone or in conjunction with other means of controlling export, such as a utility grade relay. 
As Chapter III discusses, in order to capture the advanced capabilities of ESS, the 
interconnection procedures should describe the requirements and use of PCS. The 
following definition for PCS and the related concepts based on the IREC 2 019 Model are 
provided here and will be relied on in later chapters: 
Non-Export or Non- Exporting  means when the DER is sized, designed, and 
operated using any of the methods in Section __, such that the output is used for Host Load only and no electrical energy (except for any Inadvertent Export) is transferred from the DER to the Distribution System .  
 
Limited Export means the exporting capability of a DER whose Generating 
Capacity is limited by the use of any configuration or operating mode described 
in Section __.  
  
Note the blank section reference in the above two definitions should refer to a new  
section establishing acceptable export controls. Chapter III.E.2  discusses this 
section further and provides model language.   Power Control System  or PCS means systems or devices which electronically 
limit or control steady state currents to a programmable limit.  
 Host Load means electrical power, less the DER auxiliary load, consumed by the 
Customer at the location where the DER is connected.  Inadvertent Export means the unscheduled export of active power from a DER, 
exceeding
26 a specified magnitude and for a limited duration, generally due to 
fluctuations in load-following behavior. 
  
3. Definitions of Nameplate Rating and Export Capacity  
DERs with ESS often limit their output using a PCS, relay, or other means. It is useful for the interconnection procedures to have a defined term that describes the maximum amount 
of this limited output. The term Export Capacity is recommended, which can be contrasted 
with the DER’s full Nameplate Rating: 
 
26 IEEE P1547.9 u ses “beyond” rather than “exceeding.”  
 
 
II. Updating Interconnection Procedures to Be Inclusive of Storage  
 
 44 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Export Capacity  means the amount of power that can be transferred from the 
DER to the Distribution System. Export Capacity is either the Nameplate Rating, or 
a lower amount if limited using an acceptable means identified in Section __.  
 Nameplate Rating  means the sum tot al of maximum rated power output of all of 
a DER’s constituent generating units and/or ESS as identified on the manufacturer nameplate, regardless of whether it is limited by any approved means.  
  
4. Definitions of Operating Profile and Operating Schedule  
DERs with energy storage can control their import and export according to a fixed schedule, which we recommend calling an operating schedule. DERs based on solar generators (without ESS) have a maximum possible output that is less than the DER’s Nameplate Rating. This is often called a solar output profile. It is useful for interconnection 
procedures to have a defined term that describes the maximum output possible in a particular hour based on the DER’s operating schedule or resource characteristics, e.g.,  
solar output profile; we recommend calling this the operating profile:  
Operating Profile  means the manner in which the distributed energy resource is 
designed to be operated, based on the generating prime mover, Operating 
Schedule, and the managed variat ion in output power or charging behavior. The 
Operating Profile includes any limitations set on power imported or exported at the Point of Interconnection and the resource characteristics, e.g., solar output profile or ESS operation.  
 Operating Schedule  means the time of year, time of month, and hours of the day 
designated in the Interconnection Application for the import or export of power.  
 
 
5. Updates to Forms and Agreements  
In addition to updating the definitions in the procedures, related interconnection documents —including the application forms, study agreements, and interconnection 
agreement —should also be updated to include appropriate terms and concepts related to 
energy storage. For example, interconnection procedures should acknowledg e that ESS 
can be used to limit export to the grid in some or all hours. Further, the application forms should include fields for information on the type of energy storage technology to be installed, any proposed operating profile and/or use,
 both kilowatt  (kW) capacity and 
kilowatt-hour (kWh) storage values, and other information that is particularly relevant for 
reviewing an energy storage application.  
 III. Requirements for Limited- 
     and Non-Export Controls
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 45 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  III. Requirements for Limited - and Non -Export Controls 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  
Storage syste ms have unique capabilities, such as the ability to control export to, or import 
from, the grid. There are multiple different methods by which ESS can manage export, 
including the use of traditional relays as well as Power Control Systems that have recently 
been refined under a common standard. However, utilities, customers, developers, 
manufacturers, and regulators may be unfamiliar with the currently available control technologies and methodologies for testing or verifying that Power Control Systems will operate as intended. This can result in each ESS needing a tailored screening and study assessment to interconnect (known as customized review), testing, and/or utilities 
overestimating system impacts if they do not have confidence in the controls used. Th ese 
are significant barriers to an efficient and effective interconnection process for ESS.  
Energy storage export and import can provide beneficial services to the end-use customer 
as well as the electric grid. These capabilities can, for example, balance  power flows within 
system hosting capacity limits, reduce grid operational costs, and enable arbitrage for solar -plus -storage owners via self -supply. But if mismanaged or enacted at the wrong 
times, these same capabilities can have adverse and potentially damaging effects.  
For most grid assets, relays, circuit breakers, and manual disconnect equipment have been regularly employed as protection equipment to prohibit adverse operations. However, energy storage has inherent flexibility that presents unique op portunities for departing 
from status quo grid integration and protection approaches. For example, ESS offers an ability to dispatch active and reactive power via a PCS, a high rate of response, and the capability to transition twice its rated power in a single step (from full import to full export 
or vice versa). Developing standardized methods for validating the types of export controls 
most suited for ESS and other DERs can help take full advantage of ESS performance while 
also minimizing interconnection  costs. Standardized methods are also essential for 
ensuring that utilities can provide reliable electricity, in part, through the reliable operation of interconnected assets.  
Clear identification of standardized methods of controlling export in interconn ection rules 
also provides interconnection customers the information they need to properly design ESS projects prior to submitting interconnection applications. This regulatory certainty reduces the time and costs associated with ESS interconnection by min imizing the amount of 
customized review needed and by empowering customers to design projects that avoid 
the need for distribution upgrades.  
Today, many state interconnection procedures do not yet recognize export -limiting 
capabilities at all, and even fe wer concretely identify the acceptable methods of control. 
The following chapter provides background on how interconnection procedures consider 
export limiting today. It introduces the types of export controls that can be used and 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 46 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  discusses, in particular, the standardization process for PCS. It then provides 
recommendations on incorporating guidance on export controls into interconnection 
procedures to minimize customized review while also ensuring export -controlled systems 
are safely evaluated.  
Note: Whi le this chapter discusses the requirements for limited-  and non -export controls, 
Chapter IV discusses the screening and study process for evaluating these types of 
systems.  
 
B. State Approaches to Identifying Export Control Methods  
Currently, interconnection procedures in the United States generally have one of three different ways of addressing the concept of export control for storage and other DERs. 
First, some procedures do not recognize the concept of export limiting at all. The FERC SGIP contains little discussion or acknowledgement of non - or limited -export projects. 
Thus, a numb er of states that have followed the FERC SGIP model,
27 and several other 
states, do not have any process associated with reviewing non - or limited -export projects. 
The second group have a distinct review tier for non -exporting projects (typically Level 3),  
like the IREC 2019 Model. However, these rules typically do not identify what methods of controlling export are acceptable with any level of specificity.
28 Finally, the third group are 
those that followed the California Rule 21 model, which includes a distinct screen for non -
exporting projects.29 This screen identifies, with more detail, what methods of export 
control are acceptable to qualify as non -export for purposes of the screen. None of these 
three categories has historically included any consideration of limited-export projects. 
The approach taken in California has a distinct advantage in that it is the only one that 
provides utilities and applicants with a clear list of the acceptable methods for controlling export. However, that list of acceptable export controls is embedded in a screen for non -
exporting projects only and thus it has not provided a convenient vehicle for the incorporation of controls used for limited- export, as compared to non -export, systems.  
 
27 See, e.g., NC Util. Comm., Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, North Carolina Interconnection Procedures (Aug. 20, 2021), 
https://desitecoreprod -cd.azureedge.net/_/media/pdfs/for -your -home/212287/ncip-approved -oct-15-
2020.pdf?la=en&rev=cd85b126dd0345019917e2464beb861b; OH Admin. Code 4901:1 -22. 
28 See, e.g. , IL Admin. Code tit. 83, § 466.80(c)(2) (“The distributed generation facility will use reverse power relays or 
other protection functions that prevent power flow onto the electric distribution system”); Admin. Code r. 199.45.7(3); 
(“The distributed generation facility will use reverse power relays or other protection functions that prevent power flow 
onto the electric distribution system. . .”; 2013 IREC 2019 Model (“An Applicant may use the Level 2 process for a 
Generating Facility with a Generating Capacity no greater than ten MW that uses reverse power relays, minimum 
import relays or other protective devices to assure that power may never be exported from the Generating Facility to 
the Utility.”)  
29 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Southern California Edison, Rule 21 § G .1.i; NV Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV Power Co. 
Rule 15 § I.4.b.  
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 47 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The following subsection III.C provide s a description of the export control methods that 
have been traditionally recognized in interconnection procedures and/or standards, such 
as those in California and Nevada.  
 
C. Traditional Export Control Methods  
Where DER systems require export limiting in order to interconnect, control has been 
achieved over the years in multiple ways with existing equipment, mostly only for larger systems. This is often achieved using protective relays implementing a reverse power limiting function (known as Reverse Power Protection) or minimum import function (known as Minimum Power Protection). Relays are sensing and computational devices which can signal a circuit breaker to trip based on measured quantities of voltage and current, 
dependent on the function(s) implemented. For a non -export system, the relay would be 
set to trip the circuit breaker if reverse power is sensed for longer than a short delay time 
or, alternatively, if import power falls below a minimum amount. A similar concept can be used for limited-export s ystems to trip the breaker when reverse power exceeds a certain 
level (known as Directional Power Protection).  
DER systems which employ this type of protection to control export may have an additional 
control system acting internally to ensure export powe r does not reach the level which 
would cause the relay to trip. Alternatively, the systems could be designed based on an analysis of the load and generation at the site, such that export power is very unlikely to ever exceed the limit. In this case, inadve rtent export (previously described in Chapter 
II.B.2 and Chapter III ) could be introduced where some export beyond the limit occurs, but 
is not of sufficient duration to cause a trip. Inadvertent export would usually occur due to a fast drop in load, such as a large air conditioning unit or other large load turning off. DE Rs 
with control systems in place can recognize this violation of the export limit and respond quickly to reduce generation so export no longer exceeds the limit. Chapter V  will discuss 
inadvertent export in more detail.  
Anot her way to control export is by reducing the export capability of the DER via an internal 
setting to a value below its Nameplate Rating. Inverters typically have an ability to limit 
maximum output power via a settable parameter or via a firmware change, th e latter 
typically requiring the intervention of the manufacturer. IEEE 1547- 2018 has formalized this 
concept by allowing the changing of nameplate parameter values via configuration (known as Configured Power Rating). This optional feature can be tested w ith the IEEE 1547.1 -2020 
test procedures.
30 While limiting power via configuration settings does limit export power, 
it would also generally limit the ability to serve any onsite load when this limit affects the power at the inverter terminals, as is typically done today. 
 
30 IEEE Standard Conformance Test Procedures for Equipment Interconnecting Distributed Energy Resource with 
Electric Power Systems and Associated Interfaces, IEEE Std 1547.1 -2020, https://standards.ieee.org/standard/1547_1 -
2020.html . 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 48 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Another option is to use probabilistic methods to ensure export power does not exceed a 
limit, without the need for additional protection functions or relays. This is typically only done for non -export systems, by analyzing the load in com parison to the generation in 
order to have a high degree of certainty that load will always be higher than generation, usually by a wide margin (known as Relative Distributed Energy Resource Rating).  
The above practices have been used in many areas of the country and around the world, but in the U.S. have thus far only been formalized in a few interconnection rules. California, Nevada, and Hawaii have for some years included a list of recognized non -export methods 
in interconnection rules which include rela y and probabilistic methods.
31  
 
D. Certification Requirement Decision (CRD)  
Recent efforts in California and other states have focused on expanding the acceptable methods of export control to permit the use of certified Power Control Systems for both non- and limited-export functions. These can be especially useful for smaller systems 
where a relay is impractical,
32 though DERs of any size might employ them.  
Power Control Systems are composed of a controller, sensors, and inverters, any of which may or  may not be contained in separate devices. PCS have been used to limit export to 
the distribution system where no export is allowed, or to limit the maximum export to a value less than the Nameplate Rating of the DER. One possible configuration of a PCS is  
shown in Figure 1 . Here , separate PV and storage inverters are controlled by signals 
derived from a discrete PCS controller. As connected, the current transformer (CT) 
monitors the entire load, while the PCS uses the sensor in formation to create power 
setpoints for the inverter(s). In this configuration, either or both of the inverters could be controlled to an export limit, and import limiting to the storage inverter could be implemented. Other configurations with alternative connections or setups could be used to achieve different control strategies ( e.g., see Appendix B ). 
 
 
31 California Rule 21 G.1.i; Nevada Rule 15 I.4.b; and Hawaiian Electric Rule 22 Appendix II.  
32 R. Brent Alderfer, Monika M. Eldridge, and Thomas J Starrs, Making Connections: Case Studies of Interconnection 
Barriers and Their Impact on Distributed Power Projects, United States Department of  Energy Distributed Power 
Program Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Office of Power Tech nologies (July 2000), 
https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy00osti/28053.pdf . 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 49 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Figure 1. Local Power Control System Supporting Export Limiting (EPRI)  
 
Storage may include PCS export or import controls in order to maintain export or import 
limits within distribution system constraints. Storage could also use PCS to enable it to 
comply with n et energy metering requirements, typically when set for export on ly to ensure 
that a battery is charged entirely from solar or import only to ensure that a battery does not export for NEM credit.  
Since PCS are control devices, as opposed to a signaling device which trips a circuit breaker at a definite time delay (like a relay does), their response times are characterized in terms of open loop response time (OLRT), which reflects the time for the output to reach 90% of the reduction toward the final value. PCS can introduce inadvertent export as a result of changes to lo ad, similar to other systems, but they do not “trip” at any definite 
time. Though some PCS are able to respond in timeframes similar to the typical settings for reverse power relays, others are slower— while still generally being fast enough to avoid 
distribution system impacts such as interactions with voltage regulators.  
Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, Maryland, Minnesota, and Hawaii have included provisions in 
interconnection rules for these types of systems, including a maximum 30  second 
response time,
33 but those rules largely predated any certification test protocol. The UL 
 
33 AZ Administrative Code § R14-2 -2603(E)(4) (inadvertent export duration limited to 30 seconds); Section 4 Code of 
Colorado Reg ulations § 723 -3, 3853(c)(I); HI Pub. Util. Comm., Rule 22, at Sheet 44B -1 to Sheet 44B -2 (Appendix II) 
(same); MN TIIR § 11.3, at p. 33 (same); NV Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV Power Co. Rule 15 § I.4(b) (same);  Code 
MD Regs., Sec. 20.50.09.06.O(2).  

 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 50 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Certification Requirement Decision (CRD)34 for PCS (issued for UL 174135 on March 8, 2019) 
now defines conformance tests that allow PCS to be certified. While not yet part of the UL 
1741 standard, the CRD document is required to be utilized for UL product certification 
programs. The tests are planned to be incorporated into the UL 1741 standard such that the CRD will no longer be needed.  
The test protocol can be used to demonstrate that a  PCS supports: (1) export limiting from 
all sources, (2) export limiting from ESS, and (3) import limiting to ESS. Additionally, unrestricted, export only, import only, and no exchange operating modes may optionally 
be supported by the PCS. More detail on the CRD test procedures is given in Appendix B .  
 
E. Recommendations  
1. Interconnection Procedures  
As explained in Chapter III.A , the manner in which export is managed is likely to be a critical 
aspect of interconnection review for many ESS in the coming years. Furthermore, it is likely that a significant number of all future interconnection applications to the distribution 
system are going to include an energy storage component. For this reason, it is important 
that interconnection procedures be updated to more clearly and deliberately address what types of export controls are safe and reliable and can therefore be proposed as part  of an 
interconnection application without triggering the need for additional customized review.  
Relying on customized review of the export controls for each and every interconnection application is a significant barrier for ESS. Customized review deprive s applicants of the 
certainty they need to design an application to meet utility and distribution system requirements from the start. Customized review also requires additional utility time and 
resources for each application. Most importantly, however, as discussed in the preceding 
sections, there are a number of export control methods that are already widely accepted for use. Those that are newer, like PCS and the configured power rating, can also be trusted because they rely on equipment whose functionality has been certified. Non -
standard types of export control equipment will continue to need customized review, but it is reasonable to update interconnection procedures to identify a list of acceptable methods that can be trusted and relied upon by both th e interconnection customer and 
the utility.  
 
34 CRDs are the preliminary documents developed through UL’s deliberative process to inform revisions to UL’s 
existing or future listings. They are a primary vehicle for addressing hardware or control requirements in standards. The 
CRD for  PCS contains tests to assess a set of PCS functionalities not previously addressed in UL 1741.  
35 UL 1741 is a product safety standard that stipulates the manufacturing and product testing requirements for the 
design and operation of inverters, converters,  controllers, and other interconnection equipment intended for DER. Solar 
and storage inverters, as well as other products, are listed to the safety standard UL 1741, which requires grid -
interactive equipment to pass the tests in IEEE 1547.1.  
 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 51 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  A section on acceptable export control methods provides a foundation upon which other 
important interconnection rule and process changes can be made that ensure that ESS are screened and studied safely and efficiently. As discussed further in Chapter IV , in order to 
screen and/or study projects, utilities need to know, with confidence, how much the proposed project will export. In most states today, the existing approach is that the  utility 
assumes the project will export the full nameplate (or combined nameplate) of the DER equipment. In order to evaluate a project as exporting anything less than the full combined nameplate, a utility must have clear information, and confidence, in the manner in which the DER limits export. This confidence can be achieved by providing a pre -approved list of 
methods which are considered acceptable.  
This Toolkit recommends that interconnection procedures include a distinct section defining acceptable export methods and provides model language that states can use. The model language can be incorporated into all different styles of interconnection procedures with only minor modifications.  
The model language, which is provided in the following Chapter III.E.2 , accomplishes the 
following things: 
● It establishes that if an applicant uses one of the export control methods specified 
in its application, then the Export Capacity specified in the application will be used 
by the utility for evaluation during the screening and study process. It also makes clear that the Export Capacity identified in the application will be considered a limitation in the interconnection agreement.  
● It identifies six different acceptable export control methods. The methods identified 
are those described above in Chapter III.C  and III.D and in Table 1  below. The 
methods are organized by whether they can be used for non -export, limited- export, 
or for both (as shown in the following table). Settings and response times are 
identified where necessary.  
● It also includes a seventh export control option that allows for the use of any other 
method (beyond the six specifically identified methods), so long as the utility 
approves its use. In ot her words, this provision allows for customized review of any 
export control methods that do not meet the criteria of one of the six pre -identified 
acceptable methods.  
 
  
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 52 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table 1. Acceptable Export Control Methods 
Acceptable Export Control Methods  
  For Non -Exporting DER  For Limited -Export DER  
       a) Reverse Power Protection (Device 32R*)  Yes   
b) Minimum Power Protection (Device 32F*)  Yes   
c) Relative Distributed Energy Resource Rating  Yes   
d) Directional Power Protection (Device 32*)    Yes 
e) Configured Power Rating    Yes 
f) Limited Export Utilizing Certified PCS  Yes  Yes  
g) Limited Export Using Agreed- Upon Means  Yes Yes 
* ANSI36 device numbers are listed in parentheses, as defined by IEEE C37.2 IEEE Standard Electrical 
Power System Device Function Numbers, Acronyms, and Contact Designations.  
 
 
2. Recommended Language  
In order to recognize the controllable nature of ESS in interconnection review, PCS should 
be included in the list of eligible export controls, and the limits set by the PCS should be considered as enforcing the Export Capacity. Having a certified PCS allo ws smaller 
systems to incorporate a limit without an additional extensive review process. It is 
reasonable to require utilities to rely on the capabilities of certified devices. Some systems 
may be made up of components from different manufacturers, which are more challenging to certify through a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL). Therefore, some allowance for non -certified PCS, which the utility agrees meets the export control 
requirement, should also be provided for. Assurance for non -certif ied systems may be 
provided through other utility evaluations, potentially including field testing.  
The early interconnection rules incorporating PCS (such as Hawaii Rule 22 and California 
Rule 21) included detailed technical requirements. As of this writing, the technical requirements in those rules are now out of alignment with the way PCS is defined a nd 
tested per the UL CRD. This can be problematic for the evaluation of equipment since the 
 
36 The Ameri can National Standards Institute (ANSI) is a private non-profit organization that oversees the development 
of voluntary consensus standards for U.S. products and services. ANSI accredits standards developed by others that 
ensure consistency in product perf ormance and conformance with testing protocols.  
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 53 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  certification will not match the rule’s required capabilities. To maintain alignment, most 
detailed technical requirements should defer to the UL CRD and UL 1741, a nd any high -
level performance requirements in interconnection rules should align fully with the UL CRD and UL 1741. 
For enabling export controls more broadly, interconnection procedures should be revised 
to include the following model language. For interco nnection procedures based on SGIP, 
this section replaces SGIP Section 4.10 titled Capacity of the Small Generating Facility (section 4.10.1 would remain). In interconnection procedures that use a level-based approach (like IREC’s Model), this section would fit best in a section on general 
requirements that applies to all projects regardless of the review level (such as section IV of IREC’s 2019 Model).  
Section 4.10 –  Export Controls  
4.10.2  If a DER uses any configuration or operating mode in subsection 4.1 0.4 to limit the 
export of electrical power across the Point of Interconnection, then the Export 
Capacity shall be only the amount capable of being exported (not including any Inadvertent Export). To prevent impacts on system safety and reliability, any Inadvertent Export from a DER must comply with the limits identified in this 
Section. The Export Capacity specified by the interconnection customer in the application will subsequently be included as a limitation in the interconnection agreement.  
4.10.3  An Application proposing to use a configuration or operating mode to limit the 
export of electrical power across the P oint of I nterconnection shall include 
proposed control and/or protection settings.  
4.10.4  Acceptable Export Control Methods  
4.10.4.1 Export Control Methods for Non-Exporting DER  
4.10.4.1.1 Reverse Power Protection  (Device 32R)  
To limit export of power across the P oint of I nterconnection, a reverse 
power protective function is implemented using a utility grade protective relay. The defau lt setting for this protective function shall be 0.1% (export) 
of the service transformer's nominal base Nameplate Rating, with a 
maximum 2.0 second time delay to limit Inadvertent Export. 
4.10.4.1.2 Minimum Power Protection  (Device 32F)  
 
To limit export o f power across the P oint of I nterconnection, a minimum 
import protective function is implemented using a utility grade protective relay. The default setting for this protective function shall be 5% (import) of the DER’s  total Nameplate Rating , with a maxim um 2.0 second time delay 
to limit Inadvertent Export. 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non- Export Controls  
 
 54 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
4.10.4.1.3  Relative Distributed Energy Resource Rating  
This option requires the DER ’s Nameplate Rating  to be so small in 
comparison to its host facility's minimum load that the use of additional prote ctive functions is not required to ensure that power will not be 
exported to the electric distribution system. This option requires the DER's Nameplate Rating  to be no greater than 50% of the interconnection 
customer's verifiable minimum host load during relevant hours over the past 12 months. This option is not available for interconnections to area networks or spot networks. 
4.10.4.2 Export Control Methods for Limited -Export DER  
4.10.4.2.1  Directional Power Protection  (Device 32)  
To limit export of power across the P oint of I nterconnection, a directional 
power protective function is implemented using a utility grade protective 
relay. The default setting for this protective function shall be the Export 
Capacity value, with a maximum  2.0 second time delay to limit Inadvertent 
Export.  
4.10.4.2.2  Configured Power Rating  
A reduced output power rating utilizing the power rating configuration 
setting may be used to ensure the DER does not generate power beyond a certain value lower than t he Nameplate Rating . The configuration setting 
corresponds to the active or apparent power ratings in Table 28 of IEEE Std 1547-2018, as described in subclause 10.4. A local DER communication interface is not required to utilize the configuration setting as long as it can 
be set by other means. The reduced power rating may be indicated by 
means of a Nameplate Rating replacement, a supplemental adhesive Nameplate Rating tag to indicate the reduced Nameplate Rating, or a signed attestation from the customer confirming the reduced capacity.  
4.10.4.3  Export Control Methods for Non-Exporting DER or Limited -    Export 
DER  
4.10.4.3.1  Certified Power Control Systems  
DER may use certified Power Control Systems to limit export. DER utilizing this option must use a Power Control System and inverter certified per UL 
1741 by a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) with a maximum 
open loop response time of no more  than 30 seconds to limit Inadvertent 
Export. NRTL testing to the UL P ower Control System Certification 
 
 
III. Requirements for Limited - and Non-Export Controls  
 
 55 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Requirement Decision shall be accepted until similar test procedures for 
power control systems are included in a standard. This option is not 
available for interconnections to area networks or spot networks.  
4.10.4.3.2  Agreed -Upon Means  
DER may be designed with other control systems and/or protective 
functions to limit export and Inadvertent Export if mutual agreement is 
reached with the Distribution Provider. 37 The limits may be based on 
technical limitations of the interconnection customer's equipment or the electric distribution system equipment. To ensure Inadvertent Export remains within mutually agreed-upon limits, the interconnection customer may use an uncertified Power Control System, an internal transfer relay, 
energy management system, or other customer facility hardware or software if approved by the Distribution Provider.  
 
37 SGIP includes the term “Transmission Provider” in place of “Distribution Provider” in its model interconnection 
procedure language because it was adopted as a pro forma for transmission providers under FERC  jurisdiction. 
However, states typically change it to “Distribution Provider” or another term when applicable.  
 IV. Evaluation of Non-Export and
      Limited-Export Systems During
      the Screening or Study Process
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 56 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IV. Evaluation of Non -Export and Limited-Export Systems During 
the Screening or Study Process 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement  
Exported energy is often a primary consideration in the screening and technical review of 
any grid interconnection application. When utilities evaluate the potential impacts of a proposed DER, the y evaluate a variety of different technical criteria, including voltage 
impacts, protection, thermal constraints, and operational flexibility.
38 Most, but not all, of 
these factors are dependent upon how much power is exported by the DER.  
With the exception of a few states where interconnection procedures have long 
recognized non -exporting systems, utilities typically assume that proposed DER pro jects 
always export their full Nameplate Rating, even if that DER project behavior is neither 
expected nor plausible. This often results in an overestimation of the impacts of a DER 
facility. The assumption of full export is particularly problematic for an  ESS that is 
alternating current ( AC)-coupled with onsite solar or other generation, as it results in the 
facility being studied as though the ESS exports at the same time as the solar asset, which 
is typically not how systems are programmed to operate because it does not make 
economic sense. (In some cases, there may be retail rate structures where on -peak times 
fall during solar production hours, making maximum battery discharge and solar exports advantageous.) However, interconnection safety review often  needs guarantees of system 
operation even when adverse conditions are unlikely to occur and distribution system 
upgrades might result in excess capacity or protection. In addition, the assumption of full 
export ignores the ability of applicants to use man aged charging as a solution to mitigate 
hosting capacity constraints.  
In light of the growing number of areas with grid capacity constraints, some customers are 
choosing to install non -export or limited-export projects that can guarantee avoidance of 
system impacts when appropriately evaluated. Accepting the use of verified export 
controls and changing the way that the system is screened or studied will overcome a barrier to the interconnection of ESS that results in overestimating system impacts. 
Chapter III  addresses the first part of this barrier by providing recommendations on 
minimum requirements for export control methods. Establishing trusted methods of 
controlling export enables utilities to safely deviate from their default assumption that DERs export their full nameplate capacity. This chapter examines the screening and study processes on a project level when acceptable methods of export control are utilized.  
 
38 Electric Power Research Institute, Analysis to Inform California Grid Integration Rules for Photovoltaics: Final Results 
on Inverter Settings f or Transmission and Distribution System Performance , (Dec. 2016) 
https://www.epri.com/research/products/000000003002008300; Electric Power Research Institute, Impact Factors 
and Reco mmendations on how to Incorporate them when Calculating Hosting Capacity , (Sept. 2018) 
https://www.epri.com/research/products/000000003002013381.  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 57 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  As discussed in Chapter III.B, non -export systems are already included in many 
interconnection procedures and many state procedures already require utilities to 
evaluate non -export projects more efficiently in light of the fact that they do not export. 
Only recently have procedures begun to recognize the concept of a limited-export system, however. This chapter addresses the manner in which the technical review process should 
take into account a project’s export -limiting characteristics, whether they are non - or 
limited-export. It  examines where export control enables and complicates interconnections 
and presents recommendations on how to alter the technical review process to 
incorporate equipment certified for export control into the interconnection technical review process. 
 
B. Back ground on Technical Review Processes  
Typical interconnection technical review processes apply a tiered review approach that 
offers multiple review paths which increase in complexity depending on the project’s 
characteristics. This approach is utilized in FERC SGIP and a similar basic framework is 
used across state jurisdictions regardless of whether the process is modeled off of SGIP, IREC’s Model, or another template. Most jurisdictions have both a screening and a study process.  
The screening processes are designed to use a set of conservative screens to determine whether there is any probability that a project will result in distribution system impacts. If a project passes the screens, this indicates there is no need for a full interconnection study because there is little probability that it will cause distribution system impacts. Projects that fail the screens, or are not eligible for the screening process due to their size, proceed to a series of interconnection studies that mo re thoroughly analyze whether distribution 
system impacts will arise, identify whether upgrades are needed, and determine the costs of those upgrades if needed.  
The screening process is often split into multiple different tiers as well. SGIP and most stat e 
procedures have an expedited pathway for small (10 -50 kW) certified inverter-based 
projects (often called the simplified, expedited, or Level 1 process; for the remainder of this discussion, it will be referred to as the Simplified process). Some states use fewer screens 
in the Simplified process,
39 but SGIP and most states apply the same screens used for 
larger projects.40  
 
39 IREC 2019 Model § III.A.2., III.B.2 (Level 1 uses fewer screens than Level 2); MA Dept. of Public Util., Eversource 
Energy, Standards for Interconnection of Distributed Generation, p. 47 (Sept. 1 5, 2021) (Figure 1 shows that the 
Simplified process uses fewer screens than expedited process), https://www.eversource.com/content/docs/default -
source/rates -tariffs/55.pdf; 199 IA Administrative Code 45.8 -45.9 (Level 1 uses fewer screens than Level 2).  
40 FERC SGIP, Attachment 5: Application, Procedures, and Terms and Conditions for Interconnecting a Certified 
Inverter -Based Small Generating Facility No Larger th an 10 kW ("10 kW Inverter Process"), § 4.0 (simplified 10 kW 
Inverter Process uses the same screens as the Fast Track process); NC Util. Comm., Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, North Carolina 
Interconnection Procedures § 2.2.1 (Aug. 20, 2021) (Simplified 20 kW Inverte r Process uses the same screens as Fast 
Track process), https://desitecoreprod -cd.azureedg e.net/_/media/pdfs/for -your -home/212287/ncip-approved -oct-15-
2020.pdf?la=en&rev=cd85b126dd0345019917e2464beb861b. UT Admin. Code R746-312 -7 (Level 1 and Level 2 use 
the same screens).  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Expor t and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 58 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The next tier is commonly known as the Fast Track or Level 2 process (hereinafter referred 
to as Fast Track). Under this process, th e project is subject to an initial set of screens, and 
if it fails any of those screens, it may have the option to proceed to a Supplemental Review process. Some states and SGIP have defined screens for the Supplemental Review process, while in other state s it is more open -ended.
41  
Some states also have a distinct process for non -exporting projects, often called the Level 
3 process. Level 3 typically uses the same screens as Fast Track, but allows larger projects 
and may use a shorter review period.42  
Projects that pass through any of the screening processes can go directly to an 
interconnection agreement, while those that fail have the option to withdraw or proceed 
to the full study process.43 The full study process typically consists of a series of studies44 
that are designed to first assess the potential impacts of a project on the system and, if 
impacts are identified, to determine necessary upgrades and their costs. 
In practice, Initial Review criteria are more conservative than Supplemental Review criteria, 
whereas detailed studies are designed to more closely simulate actual effects rather than 
approximating probable impacts through screening.  
For the most part, the screens used in interconnection procedures today do not yet 
recognize whether a proje ct has the capability to control and limit export. Each screen is 
designed to evaluate the risks of different types of distribution system impacts. How to modify a screen to accurately evaluate export -controlled projects varies based upon the 
impact the screen is assessing. Similarly, study processes also need to take into account 
a project’s export limiting capabilities for the power flow analyses to accurately identify potential system impacts. The following sections analyze how the screening and study processes should be altered to take into account export -controlled projects. Where 
applicable, specific changes to interconnection rule language are recommended, using the FERC SGIP as a model. Recommendations for changes to today’s current interconnection  procedures are described at the end of each section, and the end of this 
 
41 4 Code of CO Regulations 723 -3, Rule 38655(d)(VI) (defining the Supple mental Review screens); North Carolina 
Interconnection Procedures § 3.4 (no defined Supplemental Review screens). FERC SGIP and IREC 2019 Model both 
define Supplemental Review screens. FERC SGIP § 2.4.4; IREC 2019 Model § III.D.  
42 199 IA Administrative Cod e 45.7(3) (non -export DERs qualify for Level 3 review that includes fewer screens than Fast 
Track); Code MD Regs. 20.50.09.11(C) -(D) (Non -export DERs qualify for Level 3 review that includes most of the same 
screens as Fast Track, except the penetration sc reen uses 25% of peak load rather than 15% of peak load); AZ 
Administrative Code § R14 -2-2623(B)-(C) (expedited process for small non-exporting DER using the same screens as 
Fast Track).  
43 Electric Power Research Institute, Independent Assessment of Duke Energy’s Fast Track Review Process for DER 
Interconnection, (Oct. 2019) https://www.epri.com/research/products/000000003002017329 .  
44 FERC SGIP has a series of three: feasibility, system impacts, and facilities. FERC SGIP §§ 3.3 -3.5. Some states also 
provide for three distinct studies, though it is now becoming more common to eliminate the feasibility study and 
proceed directly to a sys tem impacts study. NC Util. Comm., Dkt. E -100, Sub 101, North Carolina Interconnection 
Procedures §§ 4.3 -4.5 (no feasibly study); MN Pub. U til. Comm., Dkt. E -999/CI -16-521, Order Establishing Updated 
Interconnection Process and Standard Interconnection Agr eement, Attachment: Minnesota Distributed Energy 
Resources Interconnection Process (MN DIP) §§ 4.3 -4.4 (Aug. 13, 2018) (no feasibility study); NJ Admin. Code 14:8 -5.6 
(no feasibly study). Some states, such as Nevada, have only a single study. NV Pub. Util.  Comm., Dkt 17 -06014, NV 
Power Co. Rule 15 (April 11, 2018).  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 59 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  chapter includes a compilation of model language that can be inserted into a state’s 
interconnection procedures.  
 
C. Recommendations  
1. Verifying Export Control Methods  
When an inte rconnection application is submitted, interconnection rules provide the utility 
with a period of time to review the application for completeness and to verify the screening or study process that the application will first be reviewed under. To ensure the e valuations 
can proceed once the application is received, interconnection application forms will need to be updated to include information about the ESS and, where export controls are used, the type of export control and the equipment type and settings that will be used (see 
Chapter VIII.B.1). The form should be updated to be inclusive of relays and other limited-
export options. Where required, one -line diagrams should also note relay and sensor 
configurations and settings.  
During this completeness review period and once the screening or study process commences, the utility should verify that the equipment used is certified (where necessary) and/or otherwise is acceptable for the intended use. When it comes to the export control methods, the utility should verify if the methods used meet the criteria identified in the export control section of the rule (as discussed in Chapter III ). For example, the utility 
should verify whether the applicant  is using a PCS that has been tested under UL 1741, and 
for relays it should verify whether the relay is utility grade.  
Acceptable relay equipment is subject to utility-specific requirements which may be contained in handbooks or other addenda to technica l interconnection requirements. 
Utilities may maintain preferred equipment lists of specific equipment types and model numbers, allowing developers to easily include acceptable equipment in initial applications. An engineering evaluation of the proposed DE R may still be needed to 
ensure proper relay configurations and settings are noted. This can be done within the timelines associated with Fast Track or Impact Study reviews. Commissioning tests may include additional testing to ensure relays, PCS, or other export control devices are 
appropriately installed with the correct settings. As most interconnection procedures do not detail required commissioning steps, specific recommendations for tests of each different type of export limiting device are not provided within this Toolkit. 
Finally, since export -controlled systems may contain equipment in addition to the 
generation or storage unit, such as relays or PCS, it should be clarified that these still 
qualify for the Fast Track process. Some states may restrict Fast Track eligibility to only 
certified inverters, and language regarding this eligibility should be inclusive of systems 
that control export using relays or non -certified control systems agreed to by the utility. Per 
SGIP attachments 3 and 4, relays ar e considered certified if they are tested by a NRTL to 
the IEEE C37.09.1 and C37.90.2 standards. Otherwise, SGIP subsection 2.1, Applicability, 
notes the Distribution Provider “has to have reviewed the design or tested the proposed 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 60 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Small Generating Facilit y and is satisfied that it is safe to operate.”45 The latter option may 
be used for non -certified systems which are used under mutual agreement per the 
“Agreed -Upon Means” described in the recommendations of Chapter III. E.2. 
 
2. Eligibility Limits for Screening Processes Should Reflect Export 
Capacity, Not Nameplate Rating  
Screening thresholds are typically characterized in terms of a kW/kilo watt (kW) or 
megawatt (MW)/megavolt-ampere (MVA) rating without clearly specifyin g whether that 
rating refers to the Nameplate Rating or Export Capacity of a system, however, it is 
generally applied as a Nameplate Rating limitation.  
 a. Simplified Process Eligibility  
As described above, FERC SGIP and most state DER interconnection processes have an expedited review pathway for small, certified inverter -based projects. Typically, these 
processes are limited to projects between 10 and 50 kW.
46 Projects in this size range 
generally pose little risk to the distribution system. Since the small projects are likely to 
pass the interconnection screens, these Simplified processes were created to more 
quickly screen the projects, and expedite the process for signing an interconnection 
agreement.47  
Utilities process high volume s of small projects and, to avoid backlogs, it makes sense to 
have an efficient process in place for evaluating their impacts. Correspondingly, as the 
number of small projects that utilize export controls grows, it is reasonable to expect that 
many of thes e projects can also be safely reviewed under a Simplified process even if the 
Nameplate Rating of the project is larger than the existing size limit for the Simplified 
process. As long as a project’s export is limited, the only impacts that might be seen f rom 
a project with a greater Nameplate Rating are those related to fault current. First, fault current contribution from DERs is far lower compared to the utility grid. Second, inverter-based DERs contribute a much smaller amount of fault current compared to rotating DERs. Third, putting a cap at 50 kW nameplate of inverter-based DERs further minimizes fault 
 
45 In Order 792, FERC explicitly clarified that projects are eligible for Fast Track review if the proposed project is 
certified or if it is has been reviewed by the utility and determined to be safe to operate. In other words, certification is 
not required for Fast Track review. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Docket No. RM13 -2-000, Order 792, Small 
Generator Interconnection Agreements and Procedures  (Nov. 22, 2013) (hereafter “”FERC Order 792”), ¶ 104 (“In doing 
so, the text of the Fast Track eligibility table will be consistent with section 2.1, which allows that Small Generating 
Facilities either be certified or have been reviewed or tested by the Transmission Provider and determined to b e safe 
to operate.”).  
46 NY Pub. Service Comm., NY State Standardized Interconnection Requirements, § I.B (March 2021), (using 50 kW); 
OH Admin. Code 4901:1 -22-01(Z) (using 25 kW); 199 IA Administrative Code 45.7(1) (using 20 kVA); FERC SGIP, 
Attachment 5: 10 kW Inverter Process;  UT Admin. Code R746-312 -8(1)(b) (using 25 kW).  
47 Though this varies by state, the three major differences between a Simplified process and the Fast Track process 
are: (1) typically there is a combined application and agreement form that enables the customer to sign the agreement 
upon submitting the application, enabling the utility to simply counter sign after review is complete instead of sending it 
back to the customer for signature; (2) the timeline for application of the screens or other steps is somet imes shorter 
than that which is provided for Fast Track; and (3) in some states Simplified projects are processed through fewer screens.  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 61 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  contribution from such system sizes. Since PV with AC -coupled ESS would increase the 
Nameplate Rating, it is reasonable to allow limited-export systems with a larger Nameplate 
Rating to take advantage of this expedited process.  
As described above in Section IV.B , eligibility limits for “Simplified processes” range from 
10-50 kW. While many states are still using the low er end of the range (10 kW), the IREC 
2019 Model uses 25 kW and the clear trend is to increase the threshold. For example, 
California uses 30 kVA; Maryland, Minnesota, and North Carolina use 20 kVA; and New York uses 50 kVA.
48 As such, applications should be permitted to utilize the Simplified 
pathway for certified inverter-based projects if the Nameplate Rating does not exceed 50 kW and the Export Capacity does not exceed 25 kW.  
 b. Fast Track Process Eligibility  
Eligibility for the Fast Track process is also typically limited by size. SGIP originally limited access to projects below 2 MW, but in 2014 FERC updated SGIP to vary the eligibility by size for certified inverter-based systems depending on the “voltage of the line and the location of and the type  of line at the Point of Interconnection.”
49 The eligibility limit 
remained 2 MW for synchronous and induction machines (such as those powered by fossil 
fuel, hydro, bio/landfill gas, or through combined heat and power). Some states have 
followed the updat ed SGIP approach and adopted a varying eligibility limit, while others 
continue to have a single size limit for Fast Track eligibility. Regardless of the approach, like with the Simplified process, it is reasonable to apply the size limit to the Export 
Capacity instead of the Nameplate Rating.  
Export-controlled projects may pass the screens that evaluate if a project is likely to cause safety or reliability impacts on the distribution grid, even if their Nameplate Rating is greater 
than the currently specified size limits. If a project passes through the screens, it can be 
safely interconnected without the need for further study. Enabling the greatest number of 
ESS projects to take advantage of this process is an important way to improve the 
efficiency and lower the costs of ESS interconnection. The following sections will discuss 
how each screen should be crafted to ensure that the impacts of export -controlled systems 
are accurately taken into account. The eligibility limit does not take the place of the screens 
and thus should only be used to sort out projects that are very unlikely to pass the screens.  
Fast Track eligibility should be modified so that it is evaluated on the basis of the project’s 
Export Capacity and not the Nameplate Rating of the project.   
 
48 CA Pub. Util. Comm. Decision 20 -09-035, pp. 43 -44 (approving proposals 8f, 8g, 8h, and 8j, which increase the size 
limit for projects that can bypass certain screens from 11 kVA to 30 kVA; the final version of Rule 21 is still in the advice 
letters stage due to other issues but this change is supported by all parties and was ordered by the Commission); Code 
MD Regs. 20. 50.09.08(B); MN Pub. Util. Comm. Dkt. E -999/CI -16-521, MN Distributed Energy Resources 
Interconnection Process § 2.1.1 (MN  DIP) (April 19, 2019); NC Util. Comm., Dkt. No. E -100, Sub 101, North Carolina 
Interconnection Procedures, Forms, and Agreements for State -Jurisdictional Generator Interconnections, § 2.1 (Aug. 20, 
2021); NY State Pub. Serv. Comm., Dkt. No. 15 -E-0557, Order Modifying Standardized Interconnection Requirements 
(March 18, 2016).  
49 FERC SGIP § 2.1; FERC Order 792, ¶¶ 112 -118 (describing why  FERC raised the size limit for Fast Track eligibility).  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Sys tems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 62 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  3. Screens Require Modifications so the Impact of Export -
Controlled Systems Is Accurately Evaluated  
Each of the interconnection screens is designed to evaluate whether there is a risk that a 
proposed project will cause a particular type of impact on the distribution system. The screens cover a variety of different concerns, including thermal, voltage, protection, grounding, networks, etc. Some of the screens evaluate a project’s likely impacts based upon the “size” of the project and, though the screens a re not explicit, it is generally 
assumed that the size refers to the Nameplate Rating of the project. Unfortunately, in the case of export -controlled projects, applying certain screens using a project’s Nameplate 
Rating instead of its actual Export Capacit y can result in an overestimation of the project’s 
impact. Thus, one of the single most important ways that the interconnection process can 
be improved for ESS projects is to ensure that each screen is written to properly distinguish 
between the impacts of  a project with or without export control. This can primarily be done 
by distinguishing between the Nameplate Rating or the Export Capacity of a project depending on the type of potential impact the screen is intended to assess. 
Two relevant definitions from Chapter II.B.3  are useful to note here as they will be referred 
to in this section: 
● Export Capacity  means the amount of power that can be transferred from the 
DER to the Distribution System. Export Capacity is either the Nameplate Rating, or 
a lower amount if limited using an acceptable means identified in Section 4.10 ( to 
refer to section on acce ptable export controls, see Chapter III.E).  
● Nameplate Rating  means the sum of maximum rated power output of all of a 
DER’s constituent generating units and/or ESS as identified on the manufacturer 
nameplate, regardless of w hether it is limited by any approved means. 
Whether and how the screens need to be modified depends on the type of impact that 
each screen is designed to evaluate. The following subsections will discuss the screens 
that require revision to better accommoda te the export control features of ESS. The 
screens referenced are those used in SGIP, which are also widely used across the United States. If a state has additional screens not identified herein, a similar analysis can be conducted for those screens to det ermine if the impacts they are designed to evaluate are 
related to the entire nameplate of a project or only the amount that is exported onto the distribution system. The SGIP screens that are not identified below do not require revision.  
a. Screens in Wh ich Export Capacity Is Appropriate to Use When 
Assessing Impacts  
i. Penetration Screens  
SGIP and most interconnection rules have what is known as a penetration screen in both the Simplified and Fast Track processes (typically the same screen) and SGIP also has a less conservative penetration screen in Supplemental Review. In SGIP, these are Fast Track screen 2.2.1.2 (known as the 15% of peak load screen) and Supplemental Review 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 63 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  screen 2.4.4.1 (known as the 100% of minimum load screen). Both of these screen s are 
designed to evaluate if the total generation —currently normally applied based on the 
Nameplate Rating of each DER —on the line section exceeds the minimum load on the 
circuit (thereby creating the potential for backfeed).50  
For both of these screens, it is appropriate to switch from Nameplate Rating to evaluating 
whether the proposed project’s Export Capacity, aggregated with the Export Capacity of 
all other DERs on the line segment or circuit, exceeds the percentage of peak or minimum load. The inten t of this clarification of terms is that only export past the P oint of 
Interconnection  is relevant to consider, as only that export amount would interact with the 
other load on the circuit. The penetration screens are used as a barometer for a range of potential issues that might arise when there is reverse power flow beyond the circuit or 
line section. As a result, when a system is designed to not export or to limit export, it is not necessary to consider the power that is not exported in this screen.  
For projects with some amount of inadvertent export, we recommend a new screen to 
evaluate for potential impacts; this is discussed in the following section. 
The penetration screens should be revised to clarify that the screen will be applied by 
evaluating th e Export Capacity from the proposed project, not the full Nameplate Rating of 
the project.  
ii. New Inadvertent Export Screen  
If the steps described above for revising the eligibility limits to apply to Export Capacity (addressed in Chapter IV.C.2 ) and revising the Fast Track penetration screen (the 15% 
screen) to account only for Export Capacity (addressed in Chapter IV.C.3.a.i)  are both 
taken, this could enable projects with any sized nameplate capacity to be  interconnected 
without undergoing Supplemental Review or detailed impact studies (assuming the project does not fail any of the other Fast Track screens). The 15% screen is used as a proxy for reviewing voltage and other system effects. Any steady -state v oltage rise due to reverse 
power flow would continue to be effectively evaluated under the 15% screen since the exported power that could cause reverse flow would still be accounted for. However, non -
exporting DER capacity could also potentially introduce voltage changes due to inadvertent export events. As these short -term voltage effects would be dependent on 
only the non -exporting portion of the Nameplate Rating, the revisions to the 15% screen 
could mean that there is a possibility that these voltage ch anges would not be effectively 
screened. The non -exporting portion is the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity.  
The research team determined a sizing threshold below which a system would not create objectionable voltage changes due to inadvertent exp ort. Above that threshold, an 
additional screen is recommended to ensure that inadvertent export from large systems 
 
50 Kevin Fox, Sky Stanfield, et al, Updating Small Generator Interconnection Procedures for New Market Conditions, 
Nat. Renewable Energy Laboratory, pp. 22-24 (Dec. 2012) (explaining the development a nd use of the 15% of peak load 
screen and the 100% of minimum load screen), https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/56790.pdf . Note that existing DER 
may mask load, such that measured minimum net load is reduced. Backfeed will occur once aggregate generation 
exceeds the gross load.  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 64 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  does not pass through Fast Track without further evaluation. While this new screen is 
written to focus on evaluation of potential voltage vi olations, it will effectively also screen 
for any thermal constraints because voltage effects will arise prior to any thermal constraints being reached. Potential voltage and thermal effects of inadvertent export are described further in Chapter V . This screen is only necessary for those projects which use 
an export control method that may introduce inadvertent export (these methods are 
identified in Chapter III.E.2  in the recommended lang uage for SGIP section 4.10.4).  
The proposed screen is as follows and is explained below: 
2.2.1.3 For interconnection of a proposed DER that can introduce Inadvertent 
Export, where the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity is greater than 250 kW, the following Inadvertent Export screen limit is required. With a power change equal to the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity, the change in voltage at the point on the medium voltage (primary) level nearest the Point of Interconnection does not exceed  3%. Voltage change will be estimated applying 
the following formula:  
Formula  (RSOURCE  ×∆𝑷𝑷) – (XSOURCE  × ∆𝑸𝑸) 
 
V2 
Where:  
∆𝑷𝑷 = (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × PF, 
∆𝑸𝑸= (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × �(𝟏𝟏−𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝟐𝟐), 
RSOURCE  is the grid resistance, X SOURCE  is the grid reactance,  
V is the grid voltage , PF is the power factor 
 
 
The short -term voltage effects of inadvertent export, which take place o ver seconds, are 
akin to Rapid Voltage Changes (RVC), described by IEEE 1547-2018.51 To ensure RVC is 
limited to no more than 3%, in line with the standard, even when a large nameplate capacity 
is behind a non -exporting control system, an estimate of volta ge change can be made. 
This can be done using the primary grid impedance values from the circuit model in 
addition to the DER apparent power Nameplate Rating and Export Capacity. This 
calculation gives a close estimate of the actual voltage change. It is a nticipated that most 
utilities will be able to access grid impedance data with reasonable efforts during Initial 
Review.  
Simplified inputs may be used in the alternative, namely the DER Nameplate Rating, Export Capacity, and the short circuit capacity ava ilable at the medium voltage node nearest the 
 
51 IEEE 1547-2018 subclause 7.2.2 limits Rapid Voltage Changes at medium voltage to 3% of nominal voltage and 3% 
per second averaged over a period of one second. 
 
 
IV. E valuation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 65 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Point of Interconnection.52 As further described below, the project team evaluated a 
number of feeders, and this simplified calculation results in a rather conservative estimate 
of voltage change, especially ne arer to the substation. Actual voltage change should be 
on the order of 50% or less of the calculated value. Thus, if a utility demonstrates that 
accessing the grid impedance data is not possible during Initial Review, voltage change 
may alternately be est imated by dividing the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity 
by the short circuit capacity at medium voltage. However, this less precise approach is not 
recommended to be utilized in the interconnection rules unless the grid impedance data is truly in accessible to a utility with reasonable efforts.  
To limit the need to apply this screen to systems where there is little chance of voltage impact, the project team completed a review of the calculation for a large selection of feeders. No change lower than  298 kW triggered a calculation of more than 3% at the end 
of an “average” 12 kilovolts ( kV) medium length feeder, and detailed calculations showed 
a maximum change of 368 kW. For a longer 4.2 kV feeder, the calculation was maintained within the limit up  to 413 kW, with detailed calculations finding a maximum change of 574 
kW. Therefore, it is re asonable to assume compliance without the need of running the 
calculation for systems with a non -exporting capacity below 250 kW. As inadvertent export 
events are generally non -coincident, the inadvertent export should be evaluated for only 
the DER system being interconnected. Further description of the analysis of this screen is provided in Appendix C. 
If a project fails the 3% voltage change screen in Initial Review, the application will be 
subject to Supplemental Review. Th e voltage change due to inadvertent export can be 
further evaluated in a more detailed manner in Supplemental Review, by using the 
Nameplate Rating minus Export Capacity in the detailed estimate if the simplified estimate was used in Initial Review (described further in Appendix C ) or through modeling. For DERs 
on shared secondaries, the 5% RVC criterion can be further evaluated at low voltage. For PCS with open loop response times shorter than 30 seconds, further voltage evaluations for inadvertent export should be unnecessary. For instance, as long as the OLRT is short compared to the delay of any voltage regulators present, there will be low likelihood of additional tapping of the regulator ascribed to the inadvertent export  event. See section 
V.D for further description of regulator impacts.  
A new screen in Initial Review (inserted as a new 2.2.1.3 in SGIP) should be introduced to further analyze the voltage effects of inadvertent export from systems that control export. 
iii. Transformer Rating Screen  
SGIP and most state interconnection procedures have a screen that evaluates whether a project interconnected to a single -phase shared secondary will create a risk of continuous 
equipment overloads or voltage issues caused by re verse power flow (SGIP screen 2.2.1.8). 
Like with the penetration screens discussed above, since the screen is designed to 
 
52 Note that “Point of Common Coupling” is referred to as “Point of Interconnection” in many interconnection 
procedures, and throughout this Toolkit.  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 66 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  evaluate the potential for reverse power flow to cause impacts, it is appropriate to evaluate 
this screen using only the aggregate Ex port Capacity and not the full Nameplate Rating of 
the proposed project and other already interconnected DERs.  
The transformer rating screen should be revised to clarify that the aggregate generation evaluated should be the aggregate Export Capacity and n ot the full Nameplate Rating of 
the projects on the shared secondary.  
b. Screens Where Evaluation Is Not Impacted by Export Controls  
i. Spot Network  Screen  
Screen 2.2.1.3 in SGIP evaluates the ratio of DER penetration to a spot network’s maximum load. Due to particular sensitivities of network protectors to reverse flow in a spot network, it is appropriate to use Nameplate Rating for this screen. The time responses of the export control methods may be insufficient for networks without re -configura tion of the network 
protection. 
ii. Fault Current and Short Circuit Contribution  
Screens  
SGIP and most state rules have two screens that evaluate the potential effects of fault current impacts on the distribution system. SGIP screen 2.2.1.4 evaluates whether the 
proposed facility will significantly contribute to the maximum fault current on the distribution circuit. Screen 2.2.1.5 evaluates whether the proposed facility could cause fault 
currents to exceed the short circuit interrupting capability of electric distribution 
equipment.  
While the export control methods identified in Chapter III.E.2  may act to limit the steady-
state export from a site, they do not alter the transient behavior of the DER. During f aults 
and other transient conditions, export controls are not typically fast enough to change the 
behavior of an export -controlled system. The fault current contribution from DER sites is 
therefore an aggregate contribution of the individual DERs.  
Thus, during the screening and study process, utilities must still evaluate the fault current contribution from export -controlled projects. Where fault current is already high on a 
circuit, this means that export controls are not likely to avoid protection impa cts in the same 
way that they might avoid exacerbating voltage or thermal constraints.  
With higher DER penetrations, aggregate fault current, and its impact on protection 
systems coordination, is likely to become a more common limiting factor. This may no t 
result in mitigation or system upgrade requirements but as penetration increases, more 
projects will likely fail the fault current screens and require further evaluation in Supplemental Review or Study.  
Because of the way the screens are currently worde d, there is not a need to modify the 
fault current screens in Initial Review to take into account the distinction between Export 
Capacity and Nameplate Rating like there is for other screens. However, it is 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 67 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  recommended that the fault current screens be modified to clarify that the rated fault 
current of the proposed DER is what is being evaluated. In addition, the SGIP Supplemental Review screen 2.4.4.3 and the SGIP system impacts study process section 3.4.1 should also be modified to further clarify that w hile Export Capacity should be used for assessing 
certain other types of distribution system impacts, the rated fault current should be used 
for assessments of fault current contribution.  
Today, inverters are not generally programmed to limit fault curren t. However, due to their 
flexible and fast -acting nature, the possibility is left open that fault current could be affected 
by some programmable means. Where manufacturers are able to do so and provide test 
data noting any effects, fault current other than  rated fault current could be considered in 
the review.  
The fault current screens in Simplified, Fast Track, and Supplemental Review should be revised to clarify how fault current contributions are to be determined for all systems, including those that lim it export. In addition, as described further in Chapter IV.C.4 , the 
study process should also clarify how fault current will be evaluated for export -controlled 
systems.  
iii. Service Imbalance Screen  
SGIP screen 2.2.1.8 evaluates whether a facility could create an imbalance on the service if it only operates on one leg of the two -leg phase. Here, the full Nameplate Rating could 
contribute to this imbalance, so the service imbalance screen should be revised to clarify that the Nameplate Rating of a DER should be used.  
iv. Transient Stability Screen  
SGIP screen 2.2.1.9 evaluates whether a proposed project will contribute to any existing transient stability limitations in the area. This screen should be evaluated using a DER ’s 
Nameplate Rating because the transient behavior would be relative to the total Nameplate Rating of the system.  
 
4. Study Process Modifications to Accommodate Export Control 
Capabilities  
Most interconnection rules provide limited detail on how project i mpacts are evaluated in 
the full study process. However, as with the screening process described above, interconnection studies do need to take into account the manner in which a project has limited export when assessing impacts in the system impact study. In particular, if the 
proposed project is utilizing one of the acceptable means of export control ( i.e. those 
outlined in Chapter III.E.2 ), then the utility should evaluate impacts to the distribution 
system using the project’s Export Capacity, except when evaluating fault current effects.  
When evaluating potential fault current impact, typically utilities use the Nameplate Rating of the p roject to calculate its contribution to fault current (see discussion above in Chapter 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 68 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IV.C.3.b.ii). However, if the interconnection customer has provided manufacturer test data 
to demonstrate that the fault current is independent of the Nameplate Rating, then the 
utility should utilize the rated fault current instead.  
In addition, if the project has proposed to use an operating schedule (instead of a fixed 
export limit), the feasibility study and system impact study should take that profile into 
account if the utility has assurances that the scheduling equipment can be relied upon. This is discussed more in the following subsection and in Chapter IX . The Facilities Study 
typically does not evaluate system impacts, therefore we do not recommend modifications 
to the Facilities Study.  
Section 3.4.1 of SGIP (or the equivalent section describing the system impact study), the 
system impact study agreement, and the feasibility study agreement (if the state has not 
eliminated the feasibility study) should be modified to require use of Export Capacity in the 
study evaluation where appropriate export controls are used; designate the use of Nameplate Rating or the rated fault current (if different)  for evaluation of fault current; and 
require consideration of a project’s operating profile.  
 
5. Reviewing ESS With Proposed Operating Profiles  
As described in Chapter I.A.1, applicants may have a variety of different re asons for 
incorporating export controls into their project. In some cases, projects will seek to be evaluated on the basis of a fixed export limit (essentially a uniform “do not exceed” profile). Other projects may want to be evaluated in a more granular m anner using a defined 
operating profile that varies throughout the day or by season, particularly if that profile is designed with the intent of avoiding specific hosting capacity limitations. Currently, utilities typically only evaluate projects assuming a uniform Export Capacity for all hours. Some utilities may recognize that solar PV projects (without storage) only operate during daylight hours in the screening process, but the extent to which the full solar output profile is considered in the study pro cess is not well defined and likely varies based upon a utility’s 
study capabilities.  
In order for the interconnection process to fully recognize the manner in which ESS projects can be designed and controlled to avoid grid constraints, utilities will need to 
consider operating profiles in their impact assessments. Chapter IX  discusses the manner 
in which schedules can be defined, communicated to the utility, and the steps that may be 
necessary to take in order for utilities to be confident that the schedule will be complied with (similar to how they need confidence that the e xport control method itself is reliable).  
If that confidence can be established, then the technical review process may also need to change in order to evaluate grid conditions on an hourly or seasonal basis that corresponds to a project’s proposed operating profile. Although changing interconnection review processes from annual to hourly evaluations is a big step to take, as DER proliferation increases, this process modernization is necessary to avoid overspending on 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 69 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  distribution upgrades. It is likely tha t further work will need to be done to thoroughly define 
the process for reviewing projects with operating profiles in interconnection procedures.  
The interconnection screens used in most states are currently not granular enough to 
capture the nuances of an operating profile. However, they could be updated to include a more temporally-specific analysis for certain screens. For example, where states have more granular minimum load data available, a project could be screened in relation to the hours of expor t under SGIP’s 100% of minimum load screen (screen 2.4.4.1). Alternately, as 
discussed in Chapter VI.B.2.b, the utilization of hosting capacity analyses in the screening 
processes could enable screening based upon operating profiles, as the California Public Utilities Commission has authorized.
53 
Turning to the study process, typically, the output of the DER is modeled in a time -varying 
load flow analysis. If the operating profile is not known, a worst -case impact will be 
assumed. However, when an operating profile is provided in an appropriate format and is 
controlled by methods the utility considers reliable (see Chapter IX  for further discussion 
on validation of operating schedules), then t he utility should be required to modify the 
analysis to incorporate the operating profile in the power flow simulations used to assess 
system impacts to the extent it has the capability to do so. Utilities will likely need to expand their capabilities as o perating profiles become more common.  
At this time, it is recommended that interconnection rules be updated to require feasibility studies and system impact studies to take into account the DER’s proposed operating profile (where verifiable).  
In addition , interconnection rules should require use of the operating profile in the system 
impact study agreement and the feasibility study agreement (if the state has not eliminated the feasibly study). It is expected that further development of utility screening and study 
practices will need to occur as scheduling capabilities evolve, but deeper analysis and recommendations are beyond the scope of the BATRIES project.  
 
6. Proposed  Revisions to Rule Language  
The following revisions and additions to SGIP are recomm ended to implement the 
changes described above in this chapter. SGIP is used as the reference model, but these 
changes should be relatively easy to translate to most state interconnection procedures. Screens that are not modified are not shown.  
 
  
 
53 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R.17 -07-007, Interconnection of Distributed Energy Resources and Improvements to Rule 
21, Decision 20 -09-035, Decision Adopting Recommendations from Working Groups Two, Three, and Subgroup, pp. 
36-48 (Sept. 30, 2020) (authorizing the use of hosting capacity analysis in the interconnection screening process).  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 70 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Eligibility for Simplified/Expedited/Level 1 Screening Process  
For Simplified processes, allow projects with a Nameplate Rating of up to 50 kW 
and an Export Capacity of up to 25 kW.  
 
Fast Track and Supplemental Review  
2.1 Applicability  
The Fast Track Process is available to an Interconnection Customer proposing to interconnect its DER  Small Generating Facility with the 
Transmission Provider's Distribution System if the DER  Small Generating 
Facility’s Export  cCapacity does not exceed the size limits identified in 
the table below. Small Generating Facilities below these limits are 
eligible for Fast Track review. However, Fast Track eligibility is distinct 
from the Fast Track Process itself, and eligibility does n ot imply or 
indicate that a Small Generating Facility DER will pass the Fast Track 
screens in section 2.2.1 below or the Supplemental Review screens in section 2.4.4 below.  
Fast Track eligibility is determined based upon the generator DER type, 
the Export Capacity size of the generator DER, voltage of the line and 
the location of and the type of line at the Point of Interconnection. All Small Generating Facilities DER  connecting to lines greater than 69 
kilovolt s (kV) are ineligible for the Fast Track Proce ss regardless of 
Export Capacity size . All synchronous and induction machines must 
have an Export Capacity of be no larger than  2 MW or less to be eligible 
for the Fast Track Process, regardless of location. For certified inverter-based systems, the size limit varies according to the voltage of the line at the proposed Point of Interconnection. Certified inverter-based Small 
Generating Facilities DER  located within 2.5 electrical circuit miles of a 
substation and on a mainline (as defined in the table below ) are eligible 
for the Fast Track Process under the higher thresholds according to the table below. In addition to the size threshold , the Interconnection 
Customer's proposed DER  Small Generating Facility must meet the 
codes, standards, and certification re quirements of Attachments 3 and 4 
of these procedures, or the Transmission Distribution  Provider has to 
have reviewed the design or tested the proposed DER  Small Generating 
Facility and be is satisfied that it is safe to operate.  
  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 71 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage                      Fast Track Eligibility for Inverter -Based Systems  
 
Line Voltage  Export Capacity of DER 
Eligible for  Fast Track 
Eligibility Regardless of 
Location  Export Capacity of DER Eligible  for 
Fast Track Eligibility on a Mainline   
and ≤ 2.5 Electrical Circuit Miles  
from Substation 
< 5 kV                     ≤ 500 kW                     ≤ 500 kW  
      ≤ 5 kV and < 15 kV                   ≤ 2 MW                      ≤ 3 MW  
      ≤ 15 kV and < 30 kV                  ≤ 3 MW                     ≤ 4 MW  
    ≤ 30 kV and ≤ 69 kV                  ≤ 4 MW                    ≤ 5 MW 
 
2.2.1 Screens   
2.2.1.2  For interconnection of a proposed DER Small Generating Facility to a 
radial distribution circuit, the aggregated Export Capacity generation , 
including the proposed DER Small Generating Facility, on the circuit shall 
not exceed 15 % of the line section annual peak load as most recently 
measured at the substation. A line  section is that portion of a 
Transmission Distribution  Provider’s electric system connected to a 
customer bounded by automatic sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line.  
2.2.1.3  For interconnection of a proposed DER that can introduce In advertent 
Export, where the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity is greater than 250 kW, the following Inadvertent Export screen is required. With a 
power change equal to the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity, 
the change in voltage at the po int on the medium voltage (primary) level 
nearest the Point of Interconnection does not exceed 3%. Voltage change will be estimated applying the following formula: 
 
Formula  (RSOURCE  ×∆𝑷𝑷) – (XSOURCE  × ∆𝑸𝑸) 
 
V2 
Where:  
∆𝑷𝑷 = (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × PF, 
∆𝑸𝑸= (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × �(𝟏𝟏−𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝟐𝟐), 
RSOURCE  is the grid resistance, X SOURCE  is the grid reactance,  
V is the grid voltage , PF is the power factor 
 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 72 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2.2.1.3 4   For interconnection of a proposed DER Small Generating Facility to the 
load side of spot network protectors, the proposed DER Small 
Generating Facility must utilize an inverter-based equipment package 
and the proposed DER’s Nameplate Rating,  together with the 
aggregated Nameplate Rating  of other inverter -based generation, shall 
not exceed the smaller of 5 % of a spot network's maximum load or 50 
kW.54 
2.2.1.4 5 The fault current of the  proposed DER Small Generating Facility, in 
aggregation with the fault current  of other DER generation  on the 
distribution circuit, shall not contribute more than 10 % to the distribution circuit's maximum fault current at the point on the high voltage (primary) 
level nearest the proposed point of change of ownership. 
2.2.1.56    The fault current of the  proposed DER Small Generating Facility, in 
aggregate with fault current of other generation DER on the distribution 
circu it, shall not cause any distribution protective devices and 
equipment (including, but not limited to, substation breakers, fuse 
cutouts, and line reclosers), or Interconnection Customer equipment on the system to exceed 87.5 % of the short circuit interrup ting capability; 
nor shall the interconnection be proposed for a circuit that already exceeds 87.5 % of the short circuit interrupting capability. 
2.2.1.78     If the proposed DER Small Generating Facility is to be interconnected 
on a single -phase shared se condary, the aggregate Export Capacity 
generation capacity on the shared secondary, including the proposed 
DER Small Generating Facility, shall not exceed: 
-Some states use “20 kW”  
-Some states use “65 % of the transformer nameplate power rating” 
2.2.1.9 10 The Nameplate Rating of the  DER Small Generating Facility, in 
aggregate with the Nameplate Rating of other generation DER 
interconnected to the transmission side of a substation transformer 
feeding the circuit where the Small Generating Facility DER proposes to 
interconnect shall not exceed 10 MW in an area where there are 
known, or posted, transient stability limitations to generating units located in the general electrical vicinity (e.g., three or four transmission busses from the P oint of I nterconnection). 
  
 
54 A spot network is a type of dis tribution system found within modern commercial buildings to provide high reliability 
of service to a single customer. See Donald Fink and H. Wayne Beaty, Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, 
11th edition , McGraw Hill Book Company (1978).  
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Syste ms During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 73 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2.4 Supplemental Review  
2.4.4.1  Minimum Load Screen: Where 12 months of line section minimum load 
data (including onsite load but not station service load served by the proposed DER Small Generating Facility)  are available, can be 
calculated, can be estimated from existing data, or deter mined from a 
power flow model, the aggregate Export Capacity Generating Facility 
capacity on the line section is less than 100% of the minimum load for 
all line sections bounded by automatic sectionalizing devices upstream 
of the proposed DER Small Generating Facility. If minimum load data is 
not available, or cannot be calculated, estimated or determined, the 
Transmission Distribution  Provider shall include the reason(s) that it is 
unable to calculate, estimate or determine minimum load in its supplemental review results notification under section 2.4.4.  
2.4.4.1.1  The type of generation used by the proposed Small 
Generating Facility DER will be taken into account when 
calculating, estimating, or determining circuit or line section minimum load relevant for the application of screen 2.4.4.1. Solar photovoltaic (PV) generation systems with no battery 
storage use daytime minimum load ( i.e. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. for 
fixed panel systems and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. for PV systems 
utilizing tracking systems), while all other generation uses absolute minimum load. 
2.4.4.1.2  When this screen is being applied to a Small Generating 
Facility DER that serves some station service load, only the 
net injection into the Transmission Provider’s electric 
system will be considered as part of the aggregate 
generation. 
2.4.4.1.3  Transmission Distribution  Provider will not consider as part 
of the aggregate Export Capacity generation for purposes 
of this screen generating facility capacity DER Export 
Capacity known to be alre ady reflected in the minimum 
load data. 
2.4.4.2  Voltage and Power Quality Screen: In aggregate with existing 
generation on the line section: (1) the voltage regulation on the line 
section can be maintained in compliance with relevant requirements under all system conditions; (2) the voltage fluctuation is within 
acceptable limits as defined by Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 1453, or utility practice similar to IEEE Standard 1453; and (3) the harmonic levels meet IEEE Standard 519 limits. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section [4.10], the Export 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 74 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Capacity must be included in any analysis including power flow 
simulations.  
2.4.4.3  Safety and Reliability Screen: The location of the proposed Small 
Generating Facility DER and the aggregate Export Capacity generation 
capacity on the line section do not create impacts to safety or reliability 
that cannot be adequately addressed without application of the Study 
Process. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section 4.10, the Exp ort 
Capacity must be included in any analysis including power flow 
simulations, except when assessing fault current contribution. To 
assess fault current contribution, the analysis must use the rated fault 
current; for example, the Customer may provide manufacturer test data 
(pursuant to the fault current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 
5.18) showing that the fault current is independent of the Nameplate 
Rating. The Transmission Distribution  Provider shall give due 
consideration to the following and other factors in determining potential impacts to safety and reliability in applying this screen.  
2.4.4.3.1  Whether the line section has significant minimum loading levels dominated by a small number of customers (e.g., several large commercial customers).  
2.4.4.3.2  Whether the loading along the line section is uniform or even.  
2.4.4.3.3  Whether the proposed Small Generating Facility DER  is 
located in close proximity to the substation (i.e., less than 2.5 electrical circuit miles), and whether the line section 
from the substation to the Point of Interconnection is a Mainline rated for normal and emergency ampacity. 
2.4.4.3.4  Whether the proposed DER Small Generating Facility 
incorporates a time delay function to prevent reconnection of the gene rator DER to the system until system voltage 
and frequency are within normal limits for a prescribed 
time.  
2.4.4.3.5  Whether operational flexibility is reduced by the proposed 
DERSmall Generating Facility, such that transfer of the line 
section(s) of the DER  Small Generating Facility to a 
neighboring distribution circuit/substation may trigger overloads or voltage issues. 
2.4.4.3.6  Whether the proposed DER Small Generating Facility 
employs equipment or systems certified by a recognized standards organization to address technical issues such as, 
 
 
IV. Evaluation of Non- Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 75 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  but not limited to, islanding, reverse power flow, or voltage 
quality. 
a. System Impact Study 
3.4.1 System Impact Study  
A system impact study shall identify and detail the electric system impacts that would result if the proposed Small Generating Facility DER were interconnected 
without project modifications or electric system modifications, focusing on the adverse system impacts identified in  the feasibility study, or to study potential 
impacts, including but not limited to those identified in the scoping meeting. A system impact study shall evaluate the impact of the proposed interconnection on the reliability of the electric system. 
The system  impact study must take into account the proposed DER's design and 
operating characteristics, including but not limited to the applicant's proposed 
Operating Profile (where verifiable), and study the project according to how the 
project is proposed to be operated. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section 
[4.10], the system impact study must use Export Capacity instead of the 
Nameplate Rating, except when assessing fault current contribution. To assess 
fault current contribution, the system impact study must use the rated  fault 
current; for example, the Customer may provide manufacturer test data (pursuant 
to the fault current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 5.18) showing that 
the fault current is independent of the Nameplate Rating.  
b. System Impact Study Agreement  
5.0  A system impact study shall consist of a short circuit analysis, a stability analysis, 
a power flow analysis, voltage drop and flicker studies, protection and set point coordination studies, and grounding reviews, as necessary. A system impact study shall state the assumptions upon which it is based, state the results of the analyses, and provide the requirement or potential impediments to providing the requested interconnection service, including a preliminary indication of the cost and length of time that would be necessary to correct any problems identified in 
those analyses and implement the interconnection. The system impact study shall 
take into account the proposed DER's design and operating characteristics, 
including but not limite d to the applicant's proposed Operating Profile (where 
verifiable), and study the project according to how the project is proposed to be 
operated. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section [4.10], the system impact 
study shall use Export Capacity instead of the Nameplate Rating, except when 
assessing fault current contribution. To assess fault current contribution, the 
system impact study shall use the rated fault current; for example, the Customer 
may provide manufacturer test data (pursuant to the fault current test described 
in IEEE 1547.1-2020 clause 5.18) showing that the fault current is independent of 
the Nameplate Rating. A system impact study shall provide a list of facilities that 
are required as a result of the Interconnection Request and non-binding good faith estimates of cost responsibility and time to construct. 
 
 
IV. Eva luation of Non -Export and Limited- Export Systems During the Screening or Study Process  
 
 76 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  c. Feasibility Study Agreement  
4.0 The feasibility study shall be based on the technical information provided by the 
Interconnection Customer in the Interconnection Request, including the proposed 
DER's design characteristics, operating characteristics, and Operating Profile 
(where verifiable),  as may be modified as the result of the scoping meeting. If the 
DER limits export pursuant to Section [4.10], the feasibility study must use Export 
Capacity instead of the Nameplate Rating, except when assessing fault current 
contribution. To assess fault current contribution, the system impact study must 
use the rated fault current; for example, the Customer may provide manufacturer 
test data (pursuant to the fault current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 
5.18) showing that the fault current is independent of the Nameplate Rating. The 
Transmission Distribution Provider reserves the right to request additional 
technical information from the Interconnection Customer as may reasonably become necessary consistent with Good Utility Practice during the course of the feasibility study and as designated in accordance with the standard Small Generator  Interconnection Procedures. If the Interconnection Customer modifies 
its Interconnection Request, the time to complete the feasibility study may be extended by agreement of the Parties.  
  
 V. Defining How To Address Inadvertent
     Export
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 77 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
A. Introduction and P roblem Statement 
Distributed energy resources that are configured for non - or limited- export operation using 
certain export control methods may, under certain conditions, inadvertently output small 
amounts of power to the grid for short durations of time. This phenomenon is the result of 
non-instantaneous control system response times due to large swings in generation and 
load. While not widely considered a significant threat to grid reliability today, these 
unintentional injections of current onto the dist ribution system potentially pose power 
quality risks as a greater number of areas approach higher DER penetrations and as larger energy storage (and solar -plus -storage) systems with greater Export Capacity proliferate.  
It is currently unclear if, or the de gree to which, grid power injections from inadvertent 
export may cause power quality disturbances that exceed norms and standards, including ANSI C82.1 specifications.
55 Meanwhile, no uniform specification or requirement currently 
exists for manufacturers to follow regarding ESS response time to limit inadvertent export. 
Simply put, storage systems may generate inadvertent export at different times and magnitudes, with the potential to create voltage or thermal disturbances that are not well -
characterized. 
Most interconnection rules do not define how utilities specify or evaluate inadvertent 
export that occurs while ESS controls are responding. In many cases, utilities screen and study projects with inadvertent export in the same way that they assess project s with full 
export. Moreover, different utilities in different jurisdictions may have varying requirements for inadvertent export, or dissimilar methods for measuring it. This variation can create challenges for equipment manufacturers, who must consequent ly create tailored solutions 
for different utilities. The lack of clarity regarding the impacts of inadvertent export and the optimal way to manage or prevent impacts is a noteworthy interconnection barrier for ESS. Projects may, as a result, be assumed to  have impacts they possibly never produce. In turn, 
these concerns may require more in -depth review, customized equipment design, and/or 
grid mitigation that adds cost and time to the ESS interconnection process.  
This chapter provides analytical results from modeling and simulation research that explore the potential for adverse power quality and other impacts caused by inadvertent export. Based on the results, the chapter provides key findings regarding Power Control 
System response time requirem ents to limit inadvertent export, as well as on other  
considerations for both recognizing and addressing the potential for disturbances caused 
by inadvertent export. Results can be used to modify existing interconnection procedures, applicable standards, a nd testing procedures.  
 
55 The Amer ican National Standards Institute (ANSI) is a private non-profit organization that oversees the development 
of voluntary consensus standards for U.S. products and services. ANSI accredits standards developed by others that 
ensure consistency in product per formance and conformance with testing protocols.  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvert ent Export  
 
 78 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  B. Modeling, Simulation, and Testing: Technical Evaluation of 
Inadvertent Export  
Uncertainty currently exists around the grid impacts of inadvertent export caused by export 
control methods, including PCS. Few study results examining  the effects of inadvertent 
export —particularly for cases where multiple systems are connected to a feeder— have 
been produced. As a result, there is no industry consensus about how to evaluate interconnection of ESS with controlled import and export. 
There  is lack of clarity around the speed with which PCS should be required to respond to 
inadvertent export, and the grid impacts based on slower response times. Does the current 
30-second response time requirement included in the UL CRD for PCS suffice? Or are faster response times, on the order of 10 seconds or even 2 seconds, necessary to avert 
voltage and thermal disturbance? Additionally, how does inadvertent export affect DER 
hosting capacity? Are there thresholds past which inadvertent export may impact grid reliability?  
To address these and other questions, the project team conducted a series of testing, modeling, and analysis activities. Grid impacts caused by inadvertent export and thresholds were identified by studying a range of feeder scenarios, pen etration levels, and 
inadvertent export durations. Results and observations, presented below (with additional 
details provided in Appendix D ), aim to inform technical review of export -controlled DERs, 
as well as related sta ndards, state rules, and industry design considerations.  
Note: Certifications and rules for Power Control Systems are addressed in Chapter III. This 
chapter more narrowly addresses issues relevant to inadvertent export, including 
response time requirements and circumstances that may lead to adverse distribution 
system impacts. 
 
C. Inadvertent Export Field Test Results  
The practical speed at which PCS should be required to respond to inadvertent export 
remains an open question. Open loop response time (OLRT) is the metric used to convey 
responsiveness to inadvertent export. It measures the time it takes the PCS to recognize export beyond a limit, command a change in output, and settle back to the prescribed limit.  
Ongoing debate centers around the relative benefit of faster response times for avoiding adverse grid impacts under a range of conditions. Today, the UL CRD for PCS stipulates an OLRT of up to 30 seconds for certified products. In California, however, the large investor-owned utilities are currently (as of this writing) pushing for response times as low as 2 seconds to align with the response capabilities of their non -export relays. (Tradeoffs 
regarding the use of controls in conjunction with, or instead of , relays are discussed in 
Chapter III.C  and III.D) 
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 79 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Certified PCS, either as inverter-integrated functions or as separate control devices, are 
expected to meet the UL CRD’s 30 -second requirem ent. Virtually all PCS are able to 
achieve response times that are faster than 30 seconds; however, independent test results are not always readily available. That said, overall response times appear to be improving for listed PCS. Most are able to respond in the range of 5 -10 seconds, with some achieving 
less than 2 -second OLRTs. For example, the California Energy Commission’s approved 
solar equipment list
56 includes 59 PCS devices. As of October 2021, manufacturer-
provided data indicate all but one product have OLRTs of less than 10 seconds, while 15 listed products indicate OLRTs of less than 2 seconds. 
The project team conducted field testing to further characterize the performance of a few 
commercially available PCS. Tests were performed on a sample of residential solar-plus -
storage systems sited at the Solar Technology Acceleration Center (SolarTAC) near Denver, Colorado.
57 Of the five systems, all from different vendors, four had an available 
“non -export” mode.  Tests were carried out on these non -expor t systems, with results 
intended to inform subsequent time series feeder modeling (described below) to determine grid impacts of inadvertent export under different grid conditions.  
The non - or zero-export control mode enabled direct comparison of the four PCS. Most of 
the tests specified by UL CRD were conducted, though exceptions were made when the tests were not possible due to practical changes PCS manufacturers have made to better address their markets.
58 Consequently, the tested systems were only manip ulated through 
consumer -available use cases and by simulating rapid changes to connected load. This 
limitation did not prevent capture of the information needed from the tests.59  
Figure 2 illustrates test results. As depicted, amps are recorded at the con trol point where 
power is to be limited. All four systems show a rapid response to staged sudden load 
changes with some variations in the shape of the responses. In this small sample, the 
system with a preset power level (vendor 4) was the fastest acting. The other three samples were preset for zero export. Response times of less than 2 seconds were uniformly observed for all four of the tested systems.  
 
 
56 California Energy Commission, Inverter and Energy Storage System PCS List  (Oct. 21, 2021), 
https://solarequipment.energy.ca.gov/Home/DownloadtoExcel?filename=PowerControlSystem.  
57 Solar Technology Accelera tion Center, http://www.solartac.org/ .  
58 For example, some manufacturers have moved away from local MODBUS control interfaces and removed ready 
capability to locally dispatch charge or discharge at any specific value.  
59 Testing itself was conducted using a Fluke 1750 power recorder sampling at 256 samples/cycle and a 4.8 kW 
resistive load. Current sensors were placed on the phase conductors as well as on the load. The systems were 
operated in self-consumption mod e with non -export enabled. State of charge for this testing was over 80% in all cases. 
The resistive load was powered on, and the systems were observed to reach equilibrium and cover the load as expected with no import or export at the PCC. Once stable ope ration with the load and solar was established, the load 
was discontinued by opening the load breaker.  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 80 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Figure 2. Comparison of OLRT Among Four PCS Devices  
Note:  The four devices took an average of 1.173 seconds to return to steady state (within 5% of prior 
current) at an average current of 11.757 amps.   
 
D. Modeling Inadvertent Export on Urban and Rural Feeders  
Modeling and analysis were undertaken to determine the typical impacts and practical 
limits of inadvertent export. To accomplish these aims, two real-world feeders were modeled —a short urban feeder and a long rural feeder. These two feeders were assumed 
to represent a reasonable range in feeder types and to produce results that can be 
generalized. Table 2  summarizes the circuit details (more in -depth review of the feeders’ 
attributes can be found in Appendix D).  
 
  

 
 
V. Defining How to Ad dress Inadvertent Export  
 
 81 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table 2. Summary Details of Modeled Feeders 
Modeled 
Feeder  Feeder 
Voltage  Feeder Load 
Range  Feeder 
Length  Feeder Voltage Regulation* PV 
Capacity 
Limit** 
Urban  12.47 kV 
(LL†) 
7.2 kV (LG‡) 0.65 MW (min.)  
3.2 MW (max.)  7.3 mi  Load tap changer (LTC) at 
substation, 1.1 Mvar switched-  
capacitor bank  2.9 MW  
Rural  12.47 kV 
(LL) 
7.2 kV (LG)  5.95 MW (min.)  
11.17 MW (max.)  11.2 mi  LTC at substation, 3 fixed 
capacitors, 8 line voltage 
regulators (LVRs) (delay head 
end 30s, tail end 37s)  8.9 MW  
Notes:   
*Feeder voltage regulation has time delays that may interact with inadvertent export. This was most 
apparent in the case of the rural feeder, which contains some line voltage regulators that regulate 
individual phases.   
**PV capacity limit is the amount of  exporting solar PV that can be integrated into the circuit based on a 
voltage rise limit of 105% and minimum load.  
† LL indicates to line- to-line. 
‡ G indicates line- to-ground.  
 
Time -series modeling was performed using the Open Distribution System Simula tor 
(OpenDSS)60 tool. Multiple scenarios were generated for each feeder type, including 
variations in load, solar PV, and export -controlled energy storage systems with inadvertent 
export. The objective was to determine inadvertent export feeder thresholds for 
aggregate61 energy storage system contributions. Individual plant exports that overlapped 
in the examined time period were combined in the simulations.  
Two scenarios were evaluated to study aggregate inadvertent export: 1) “simultaneous 
export,” in wh ich inadvertent export from energy storage systems was simulated to occur 
at the same time, and 2) “period diversity export,” in which inadvertent export from energy storage systems was modeled to occur at randomized starting times over a certain time period. Both evaluation approaches involved all of the simulated energy storage plants. Simultaneous (coincident) export was examined to establish the worst, albeit improbable, scenario. Additionally, the effect of different PCS OLRT (10 and 30 seconds) was evaluated. 
 
60 The OpenDSS is a comprehensive electrical power system simulation tool primarily for electric utility power 
distribution systems. It supports nearly all frequency domain (sinusoidal steady ‐state) analyses commonly performed 
on electric utility power distr ibution systems. In addition, it supports many new types of analyses that are designed to 
meet future needs related to smart grid, grid modernization, and renewable energy research. For more information, 
see Electric Power Research Institute, OpenDDS, https://www.epri.com/pages/sa/opendss .  
61 Performed modeling defined and modeled two aggregate inadvertent export types: simultaneous export and non-
coincident export. Results show simultaneous (coincide nt) export and export occurring within a specified “time 
window.” The term “non -coincident” is used here when referring to individual plant inadvertent export contributions. All 
simulations address multiple plants along the feeder.     
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 82 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  (Note: For the urban feeder, PCS OLRT of 2 seconds was studied. Some results are 
provided in Appendix D .) 
Meanwhile, randomized export was simulated to study interactions with feeder -switched 
capacitors and regulator delay times. The randomized export was simulated to occur over 
200 seconds on the urban feeder and across 60 seconds on the rural feeder, wit h each 
energy storage system inadvertently exporting at different times. Inadvertent export from 
export -controlled energy storage systems due to a negative step change in load was 
modeled by emulating the typical PCS response to a step change in load provided in UL 
1741 CRD . A shorter time period was used to evaluate inadvertent export on the rural feeder 
in order capture the interaction with the feeder’s regulation equipment (line voltage 
regulators, or LVRs, The urban feeder’s regulation equipment (Load Tap Changer, or LTC, 
and switched The time periods (200s and 60s) were chosen to sufficiently capture the 
impact of inadvertent export on the feeder.  
The simulation results address voltage rise concerns and power quality events, such as 
rapid voltage cha nge (RVC). Continuous PV export and inadvertent energy storage export 
were combined to create a voltage rise along the feeders. The PV output was simulated in the steady state
62 with the inadvertent export evaluated as a short -term Root Mean Square 
(RMS) v oltage variation.63 This distinction is important because the limits are different. 
Steady -state compatibility limits are 105% or 106% (from ANSI C84.1, ranges A and B64), 
while a commonly accepted short -term RMS overvoltage event threshold is 110%, as 
defined in IEEE 1159 -201965 and in the Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC) 
voltage compatibility industry standards.66 The project assessment considers both limits.  
Protection and thermal -related concerns associated with inadvertent export are not 
addressed by this project’s modeling and analysis effort. Protection issues are covered during the interconnection screening process. All fault current contributions of inadvertent export are considered and there is no credit given for export limiting (see Chapter 
IV.C.3.b.ii). An RVC screen is, however, recommended for addition to the initial screens 
(see Chapter IV.C.3.a.ii). Meanwhile, thermal impacts were not modeled for inadvertent 
 
62 There is no standa rd defining the duration of steady state. It is implied to be ≥30 seconds because variations less 
than 30 seconds are characterized as events ( i.e., temporary overvoltage, sag, swell, transient overvoltage, or surge).   
63 IEEE 1159 -2019, IEEE Recommended Practice for Monitoring Electric Power Quality, defines short -term RMS 
variations from 0.8 milliseconds to 60 seconds. Inadvertent export falls into the momentary and temporary categories 
as a voltage swell.  
64 ANSI C84.1 is the American National Standard  for Electric Power Systems and Equipment – Voltage Ratings. It 
establishes the nominal voltage ratings and operating tolerances for 60 -Hz electric power systems above 100 volts up 
to a maximum system voltage of 1200 kV. The standard divides steady -state v oltages into two ranges: Range A, the 
optimal voltage range, and Range B, an acceptable voltage range. Range A provides the normally expected voltage 
tolerance on the utility supply for a given voltage class. Variations outside the range should be infreque nt. Range B 
provides voltage tolerances above and below range A limits that necessarily result from practical design and operating conditions on supply or user systems or both. These conditions should be limited in extent, frequency, and duration. 
When var iations occur, measures should be taken within a reasonable time frame to get back to range A.  
65 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1159 -2019 - IEEE Recommended Practice for Monitoring Electric 
Power Quality (Aug. 13, 2019), https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8796486 .  
66 Information Technology Industry Council, ITI (CBEMA) Curve Application Note (Oct. 2000), 
https://www.itic.org/dotAsset/b7e622fd -7b12 -4641 -bb0b-00af8c9e5c37.doc.  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 83 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  export because both their level (110% max) and duration (typically 2 -10 seconds) were 
below any known thresholds for concern. 
 
1. Simulation Scenarios and Results S ummary: Urban Feeder  
Table 3 relates modeling and simulation results for the urban feeder. The cases are defined 
by different combinations of load, exporting solar PV, and export -controlled energy 
storage. They are ordered in the table by increasing amoun ts of energy storage, with 
variations in other feeder characteristics. The locations of the individual solar and battery 
systems were fixed for the analysis, and the system sizes were scaled up and down based 
on the simulation scenarios. What follows are brief analyses and discussion distilled from 
presented results. Additional details can be found in Appendix D . 
 
Table 3. Simulation Scenarios for Urban Feeder 
Case  OLRT  Load 
(MW)  
Min.=0.6
5 
Max.=3.2  Exporting 
Solar PV 
(MW)  Export - 
Controlled 
Storage 
(MW)  Name
plate 
DER 
(MW)* Steady -
State 
Voltage 
Rise (pu,** 
RMS)  Steady -State Plus Short -
Term Voltage in RMS*** 
Max. RMS 
Rise: 
Coincident  Max. RMS 
Rise: 
200s 
Period  
1 NA 0.65  0.65  0 0.65  103.0%  N/A N/A 
2 NA 0.65  2.9 0 2.9 105.0%  N/A N/A 
3 30 0.65  0.65  0.65  1.3 103.0%  103.7%  103.2%  
4 10 0.65  1.32 1.32 2.64  104.0%  105.0%  104%  
5 30 0.65  0.65  1.92 2.57 103.0%  105.0%  103.4%  
6 10 0.65  2.46  2.46  4.92  104.7%  107.0%  105.0%  
7 30 3.2 2.9 2.9 5.8 101.7%  105.2%  102.7%  
8 30 0.65  2.9 2.9 5.8 105.0%  107.6%  105.5%  
Notes:  
N/A = not applicable.  
*Nameplate DER is the sum of exporting solar PV and export -controlled storage.  
**pu refers to “per unit,” additional detail on this term is provided in footnote 69 on the next page .  
*** The Steady -State Plus Short -Term Voltage RMS category conveys the highest observed voltage rise 
when considering both steady -state and event -based thresholds. It reflects: 1) the maximum voltage rise 
observed during coincident inadvertent export, and 2) the maximum voltage rise observed during 
randomized inadvertent exp ort simulated over a 200- second period.  
 
 
 
V. Defi ning How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 84 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2. Assessment of Case Results and Discussion: Urban Feeder  
The cases illustrated in Table 3  illustrate potential voltage impacts caused by inadvertent 
export from energy storage combined with solar PV. As shown, the urban feeder was 
examined under minimum and maximum load conditions. Exporting PV was, meanwhile, increased from a comfortable leve l matching minimum load to the feeder hosting capacity 
limit
67—in this case, 2.9 MW. Export -controlled energy storage system capacity was 
increased from zero to 2.9 MW.  
The overarching aim of this analysis was to determine the extent to which export -
contr olled energy storage, and related inadvertent export, could be added to exporting 
solar penetrations under different scenarios. Again, inadvertent export was evaluated as “coincident” and over a 200 -second period of time during which the modeled energy 
storage systems individually export. Scenario results of interest are further illustrated 
below including: 
● Steady -state voltage rise with no energy storage  
● Maximum voltage rise with PV export and energy storage inadvertent export  
● Steady -state voltage rise wit h maximum DER nameplate and loading  
● 200-second inadvertent export diversity and RMS voltages 
● Coincident inadvertent export and RMS voltages  
 
a. Steady-State Voltage Rise W ith No Energy Storage  
In Cases 1 and 2, the urban feeder was operated at minimum loa d with exporting solar PV 
set at 0.65 and 2.9 MW, respectively. No export -controlled energy storage was introduced. 
In Case 1, total DER nameplate is 100% of minimum load, while in Case 2, it is 446% of 
minimum load.
68 Figure 3  shows how the steady -state voltage varies along the feeder, 
depicted by colors on the feeder map (left side) and by voltage level from the substation 
to the end of the feeder (right side). There are no voltage issues in these cases, as the 0.65 MW of exporting solar PV produces a voltage rise of 1.03 pu,
69 while 2.9 MW of PV raises 
voltage to the hosting capacity limit of 1.05 pu (shown in Table 3 ).  
 
 
67 Feeder hosting capacity limit is calculated using the EPRI Distribution Resource Integration and Value Estimation 
(DRIVE) analysis method. The limiting factor in this case was the 105% voltage rise limit. Hosting capacity for any solar 
PV scenario depends on PV plant location and size d istribution, as well as all other feeder and load characteristics.      
68 Note that the 100% minimum load is what is presently used in penetration screens and Supplemental Reviews, as 
utilized in SGIP 2.4.4.1. Here the 446% of minimum load goes above and b eyond what would have been used in the 
screen.  
69 pu, for per unit, is a way to express a quantity normalized with respect to its base value. This is often used in power 
systems engineering when referring to voltage since nominal voltage values vary dependent on location. Therefore, 
the nominal voltage (such as 120 V, 12.47 kV or 34.5 kV) is represented as 1.0 pu. The percentage can be derived by 
simply multiplying the per unit value by 100. Here, 1.03 pu could also be expressed in percentage form as 103%.  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 85 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage        
Figure 3. Case 1 Urban Feeder: Voltage- Level Map (Left) and Coincident RMS Maximum Voltages Along the 
Feeder (Right)  
 
b. Maximum Voltage Rise With PV Export and Energy Storage 
Inadvertent Export  
In Cases 3, 4, and 5 a nominal amount of ex port-controlled energy storage is added, from 
0.65 MW to 1.92 MW. Again, the feeder was operated at its minimum load (0.65 MW) with 
exporting PV capacity set at 0.65 MW, 1.32 MW, and 0.65 MW, respectively. The storage and solar PV are sited proximate to ea ch other; in some cases, they are co -located. For 
these cases, both the steady-state and the maximum coincident RMS voltages were observed.  
For Case 5, export -controlled energy storage was modeled at 1.92 MW (295% of minimum 
load) for a total nameplate DER of 2.57 MW (0.65 MW of solar plus 1.92 MW of storage —
395% of minimum load). As illustrated in Figure 4 , the m aximum RMS voltage rise is 1.05 
pu at the end of the feeder, and there is a small amount of phase unbalance. In these cases, the inadvertent export contributes to the maximum RMS voltage but does not contribute to the steady state, even at such high penetration. There is no voltage limit violation.  
 

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 86 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage        
Figure 4. Case 5 Urban Feeder: Voltage -Level Map (Left) and Coincident RMS Maximum Voltages Along 
the Feeder  
 
c. Steady-State Voltage Rise W ith Maximum DER Nameplate and  
Loading  
Figure 5 illustrates the significant mitigation in voltage rise when the feeder load is at its 
maximum. As depicted in Case 7, exporting PV is at the hosting capacity maximum of 2.9 MW (446% of minimum load). On the left, Figure 5 shows the voltage profile of the urban 
feeder with export -controlled energy storage set at 0.29 MW, which is 10% of available 
inadvertent export. On the right, the export -controlled energy storage is set at 2.9 MW, 
which is 100% of available inadvertent export. Both outcomes indicate maximum RMS 
voltages that are significantly lower than the minimum load case shown in Figure 6  for 
Case 8.   

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 87 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage        
Figure 5. Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder With 10% 
Inadvertent Export (Left) and 100% Inadvertent Export (Right)  
Note:  Maximum RMS voltage rise is mitigated by the maximum load simulated on the circui t. 
 
d. 200-Second Inadvertent Export Diversity and RMS Voltages  
For the urban feeder, a 200 -second period was applied to determine worst -case (non -
coincident) aggregate behavior of the export -controlled energy storage systems. Each 
energy storage system in advertently exports to scale at random times over 200 seconds, 
as shown in Figure 6  (left). The aggregate of the non -coincident inadvertent export is then 
simulated, yielding several non -coincident max RMS voltage rises, as illustrated in Figure 
6 at right. This is the basis for the maximum RMS voltage rise o f 105.5% reported for Case 
8 in Table 3 .  
 
      
Figure 6. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Inadvertent Export Profile (Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage 
Profiles During the Same Time Period (Right)  

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 88 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  e. Coincident Inadvertent Export and RMS Voltages  
All of the cases with export -controlled energy storage illustrate a m aximum coincident RMS 
voltage rise. Case 6 can be leveraged to illustrate how the maximum RMS voltage rise was 
determined. In this case, the feeder was at minimum load, and exporting solar PV and 
export -controlled energy storage were each set to 2.46 MW, o r 4.92 MW total. A coincident 
step change with OLRT of 10 seconds was then simulated at all locations along the feeder. 
Figure 7 shows the highest coincident RMS voltage rise event was at the end of the feeder, 
and that there  is no violation given that the RMS voltage rise was less than 110%. 
 
      
Figure 7. Case 6 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve (Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum 
Voltage Profiles (Right)  
Note:  The ( -) in the Figure 7 title at left refers to a negative step change in load or decrease in load.  
 
Another illustration of coincident inadvertent export and RMS voltage rise is portrayed in 
Figure 8 . It shows the voltage profile of the circuit with coincident inadvertent export due 
to a ste p change and a PCS open loop response time of 30 seconds. At 10 seconds, the 
inadvertent export is at its maximum and the end of the feeder experiences an overvoltage of 1.075 pu. ANSI low voltage and medium voltage violations are observed at the end of the feeder and at the capacitor bank for a duration  of 26 seconds and 30 seconds, 
respectively. Because the voltage at the end of the feeder remains above 1.05 pu for 30 seconds, the switched capacitor bank turns off at 40 seconds.  
 

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 89 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage        
Figure 8. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Coi ncident Inadvertent Export Curve (Left) and Time Series RMS Maximum 
Voltage Profiles (Right)  
Note:  The ( -) in the Figure 8 title (at left) refers to a negative step change in load or decrease in load.  
Additional simulations were run to examine the impacts of coincident and non -coincident 
inadvertent export. These simulations capture both time and locat ion diversity and well as 
variations in the OLRT of 2, 10, and 30 seconds. As expected, observed overvoltage 
durations decreased with faster OLRT.  
 
3. Simulation Scenarios and Results Summary: Rural Feeder  
Table 4 presents results from six simulation sce narios performed on the rural feeder. These 
explore the effect of OLRT (30 and 10 seconds) on inadvertent export and voltage. In all 
cases, feeder minimum load was modeled. The exporting solar PV capacity was varied 
from around 20% to 100% of minimum load and export -controlled storage with inadvertent 
export was varied from 8% to 88% of minimum load on the circuit.  
Table 4. Simulation of Scenarios for Rural Feeder  
Cases  OLRT  Min. 
Load 
(MW)  Exporting 
Solar PV 
(MW)  Export -
Controlled 
Storage 
(MW)   Nameplate 
DER (MW)* Steady -State 
Voltage Rise 
(pu,** RMS)  Steady -State 
Plus Short -Term 
Voltage in 
RMS** 
Max. RMS Rise: 
60s Period  
1 30s 5.92  5.92  0.46  6.38  104.4%  106%  
2 10s 5.92  5.92  0.486  6.41 104.4%  105%  
3 30s 5.92  1.37 1.37 2.74 103.7%  106%  
4 10s 5.92  1.46 1.46 2.92  103.8%  105%  
5 30s 5.92  5.92  5.22  11.14 105.0%  111.1%  
6 10s 5.92  5.92  5.22  11.14 105.0%  110.8%  
 

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 90 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Notes:  
PV hosting capacity on the rural feeder is 8.9 MW based on the ANSI limit of 105%. The maximum load for 
the feeder is 11.17 MW. Because feeder loading tends to mitigate the effects of inadvertent export, only 
minimum load was used in the studied cases. The  limit used for energy storage is the maximum feeder load 
minus the maximum PV export, which is 5.22 MW of storage and inadvertent export.  
*Nameplate DER is the sum of exporting solar PV and export -controlled storage.  
**pu refers to “per unit,” additional detail on this term is provided in footnote 69 . 
***The Steady -State Plus Short- term Voltage RMS category conveys highest observed voltage rise when 
considering both steady state and event -based thresholds. It reflects the maximum voltage rise observed 
during randomized inadvertent export simulated over a 60 -second period.  
  
To determine worst -case limits, the inadvertent export was compressed into a very short 
60-second timeframe.70 This “rapid fire” scenario is intended to simulate distributed 
aggregate inadvertent export as well as movement of feeder regulating equipment. 
Voltage level rise caused by inadvertent export can be identified and corrected by DER 
export controls before voltage regulation actions ( e.g., tap changing and capacitor 
switching) are able to occur. This is an advantage of the faster OLRTs Power Control 
Systems use.  
What follows are brief details from a selection of analyzed cases. Note that the rural feeder was voltage challenged, as is indicated by the number of line regulators and capacitors. The modeled PV backfeed was a contributor to the observed voltage rise, w hile loading 
was a mitigator.  
 
4. Assessment of Case Results and Discussion: Rural Feeder  
Feeder impacts were evaluated by simulating inadvertent export in all the export -
controlled energy storage systems at different starting times and over a short, one -minute 
“rapid fire” period. This aggressive approach was used to establish feeder limits and to 
show the value of faster response. In this way, inadvertent export was limited from around 0.5 MW to 5 MW as PV export and response times vary.  
Meanwhile, a 30-second response time was found to cause tap changes in some cases, 
while faster response was less likely to move regulating devices. That said, even at higher levels of export -controlled energy storage capacity, none of the evaluated scenarios 
triggered s ubstation LTC operations.  
Results from the rural feeder analysis are consistent with findings for the urban feeder. A key difference between the two circuits, however, was the existence of LVRs on the rural feeder. For the rural feeder, a longer OLRT (30 seconds versus 10 seconds) was shown to more significantly affect regulating equipment. Faster response was, meanwhile, shown to allow for a higher level of export -controlled energy storage capacity on the circuit with 
minimum effect on regulation equipmen t. Even so only Cases 5 and 6 indicated RMS 
voltage rise exceeding 110%.  
 
70 Only non-coincident inadvertent export was mode led given the low probability of coincident inadvertent export 
occurring in real life.  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 91 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Higher OLRTs also caused increased LVR operations when compared to smaller OLRTs at 
the same level of export -controlled energy storage capacity on the circuit. As shown in 
Figure 9 , with 0.9 MW of export -controlled energy storage capacity (not shown in the 
table), an OLRT of 10 seconds results in two LVR operations, while an OLRT of 30 seconds triggers four LVR operations.  
     
 
Figure 9. Rural Feeder: LVR Operations at 10 Seconds OLRT (Left) and 30 Seconds OLRT (Right)   
 
Higher OLRTs, meanwhile, cause higher overvoltage violations when compared to smaller 
OLRTs for the same level of export -controlled energy storage capacity. Per Cases 5 and 
6, and as illustrated in Figure 10 , at an export -contr olled energy storage capacity of 5.22 
MW, an OLRT of 30 seconds results in a higher overvoltage violation of 111.1%, while an OLRT of 10 seconds results in a maximum voltage of 110.8%. These results support the assertion that too much generation at the end  of the rural circuit reduces the amount of 
inadvertent export that can be accommodated without incident. 
 
      
Figure 10. Rural Feeder: Overvoltage Violations at 30 Seconds OLRT (Case 5) at Right, and 10 Seconds 
OLRT (Case 6) at Left 

 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 92 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Finally, all of the cases indicate how much DER capacity can be connected to the rural 
circuit under minimum load conditions. In all cases, a faster OLRT (10 seconds) enables an equal or higher amount of DER capacity than does a slower OLRT (30 seconds). 
 
E. Key Findings and Observations  
Several key takeaways emerge from the completed modeling and analysis. These findings and observations, enumerated below, stem from the character of inadvertent export and 
from the studied urban and rural feeders. They emanate from scenarios with both exporting PV and export -controlled energy storage systems at different penetration levels, 
system loads, and open loop response times. Applied steady-state limits were from ANSI C84.1, while inadvertent export event limits were from IEEE 1159.  
● Testing indicates that open loop response times in a number of PCS products are significantly faster than 30 seconds. This finding is consistent with vendor-published data and product lists published and maintained by the likes of the California Energy Com mission, and others. These response times support the 
assertion that thermal impacts are unlikely to be a limiting factor for inadvertent export because both their level (110% maximum) and duration (typically 2 -10 
seconds) are below any known thresholds fo r concern. 
● Inadvertent export is an RMS voltage event, not a steady-state condition. Given 
that inadvertent export is less than 30 seconds, it fits into an IEEE -defined event 
category. Therefore, it is appropriate to use the short -term RMS event limit of 1 10% 
instead of the steady-state limit of 105%. This creates more headroom for 
inadvertent export in most feeders. 
● Time series modeling is an effective way to evaluate RMS voltage impacts. 
OpenDSS analysis enabled the assessment of coincident and time diversified 
inadvertent export, distributed at different locations and with varying load and PV on selected feeders.  
● Feeders can host more DER capacity if the DER is export-controlled. This can be 
viewed as increasing the feeder’s available hosting capacity for nameplate DER or 
as a more efficient use of existing feeder capacity for DER. While both the urban 
and rural feeder assessments supported this finding, the extent to which hosting capacity can be increased will depend on feeder characteristics, as well as the 
location and size of the exporting DER.  
● DER capacity on the urban feeder could be doubled with export limiting 
(inadvertent export) compared to steady export. The urban feeder was very 
tolerant of the simulated inadvertent export. None of the deploym ent cases —up to 
twice the feeder calculated hosting capacity— exceeded RMS voltage rise limits.  
● The rural feeder’s capacity for inadvertent export is very location dependent. While head end capacity for inadvertent export was substantial, the capacity to support DER drops off more steeply in the longer rural feeder. This was apparent when distributed energy storage is located further from the substation. The main limiting factors were found to be coordination of regulator operations and maintaining voltage balance between phases (not seen in the urban feeder).  
 
 
V. Defining How to Address Inadvertent Export  
 
 93 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  ● The value of faster control response was more apparent on the rural feeder than 
the urban feeder. This observation is based on the interactions of LVRs with 
inadvertent export events. LVRs in series, a nd in some cases single -phase 
regulators, lead to more step changes in voltage and more voltage unbalance. This may be a limiting factor for export -controlled energy storage in long feeders (not 
seen in the urban feeder).  
● The impact of smart inverter functions such as volt-var
71 and volt- watt72 is 
unclear. These functions were not activated. There is a possibility of negative 
interactions between neighboring inverters during inadvertent export. Smart inverter volt -var settings may need to consider the inadvertent export as well as 
existing feeder line regulators. Coordination of timing will be needed to avoid 
oscillations. Given the high relevance of inadvertent export voltage events, this 
question needs further investigation in the future.  
 
71 Volt-var refers to voltage -reactive power mode. In this mode, the DER modulates its absorption or 
injection of reactive power in relation to the measured grid voltage; there can be a “dead band” near 
normal (ANSI C84.1 range A) voltage where no reactive p ower is absorbed or injected.  
72 Volt-watt refers to voltage -active power mode. This mode utilizes a reduction in active power to 
decrease voltage (normally only once voltage is outside of the normal range).  
 VI. Improving Grid Transparency
      Through Hosting Capacity 
      Analyses and Other Tools
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 94 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity 
Analyses and Other Tools 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement 
Storage can provide energy to, and charge from, the grid in a controlled manner that 
avoids or minimizes the need for upgrades while providing valuable grid services. However, to optimally design storage to provide these benefits, access to information about the distribution grid and its constraints is needed to inform where and how to 
interconnect storage.  
Currently, the informat ion about distribution grid equipment and constraints that is needed 
to select sites and design site -specific operating profiles is largely inaccessible to those 
looking to install storage. Limited information around distribution system needs and constrain ts forces customers to submit interconnection applications and operating profiles 
for projects that may not be properly tailored to a grid location. The evaluation of 
interconnection applications for ESS that are not optimized for their grid location results in wasted time and resources for both the interconnection customer and the utility. In addition, areas of the grid that can benefit from storage services may receive less focused attention or poorly designed projects. For these reasons, limited grid tra nsparency is a 
barrier both to realizing the benefits of ESS for the grid and to ESS interconnection.  
Utilities’ distribution system information is typically available to customers only through 
mechanisms that interconnection procedures or regulatory orde rs require. This toolkit 
provides stakeholders insights into information transfer options. It addresses practical methods and related requirements for the provision of distribution system data to ESS customers. 
Hosting capacity analysis (HCA) is a complex analytical approach that uses power flow 
simulations to evaluate how the distribution grid performs with the addition of new DERs. 
It is a modern procedure that provides detailed and sophisticated distribution system 
analyses to utility engineers, customers, and state regulators. When HCA results are 
provided on an hourly basis, developers can use them to guide the design of ESS sizing and operation to avoid negative impacts on the grid and provide energy and other services when grid constraints allow it. I n addition, if the HCA is used in the interconnection process, 
it can help screen for potential grid impacts caused by a proposed ESS project, facilitate more efficient application processing, and encourage better system design. There is some disagreement among stakeholders on how much an HCA analysis can be relied on to 
precisely design ESS operating profiles or to make decisions in the interconnection process; those points of disagreement are discussed further in the Recommendations 
section below.  
Less sophisticated tools, including pre -application reports and “basic distribution system 
maps” that provide fixed grid data (and thus differ from HCA maps, as described above), 
are more commonly used today. However, for energy storage projects to provide many of 
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 95 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  their most valuable grid services, developers would benefit from more information than 
has typically been shared in the past for solar-only projects. This chapter first discusses 
how to use the less complex approaches available today and then how to adopt HCAs as a more granular and sophisticated tool that estimates time -varying grid constraints.  
 
B. Recommendations  
1. Providing Data via Pre -Application Reports and Basic Distribution 
System Maps 
Utilities often provide pre -application reports so that cu stomers seeking to interconnect 
DERs can understand the state of the distribution system at the Point of Interconnection (POI). The pre -application report is part of SGIP and is considered a “best practice;” the 
suggested price point is $300 per report. Pre -application reports are typically provided 10 
days after a customer submits a request and pays a fee. In some cases, utilities also publish basic distribution system maps that provide some similar information and can be accessed by developers and others via the internet at any time at no cost. It should be noted, however, that the amount of data available in system maps can vary depending on the regulatory requirements, feasibility, and cost required for utilities to collect and format it in a publicly accessible manner.  
A list of data that developers commonly request to be included in pre -application reports 
and basic distribution system maps is provided below. Both pre -application reports and 
basic distribution system maps are still evolving at many utilities, and the data being shared is driven by regulatory requirements and what data may be available. Utility time and resources are required to acquire and package the data in a publicly accessible format 
and the accessibility of the data varies by utility. Stakeholders have different views on the 
value of providing all of this information to customers. The list below includes the information fields most often requested; they are not universally available within different utility jurisdictions.  
Requested  Pre-Application Report Data  
● Total capacity of substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to serve proposed 
site 
● Aggregate existing generating capacity interconnected to the substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to serve proposed site  
● Aggregate queued generating capacity proposing to interconnect to the substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to serve proposed site  
● Available capacity
73 of substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to serve 
proposed site  
 
73 Available capacity is the total capacity less t he sum of existing and queued generating capacity, accounting for all 
load served by existing and queued generators.  
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transpar ency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 96 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  ● Whether the proposed generating facility is located on an area, spot, or radial 
network 
● Substation nominal distribution voltage or transmission nominal voltage if 
applicable  
● Nominal distribution circuit voltage at the proposed site  
● Approximate circuit distance between the proposed site and the substation  
● Load profile showing 8760 hours, by substation and transformer, when available  
● Relevant line section(s) actual or estimated peak load and minimum load data, when available  
● Number and rating of protective devices, and number and type of voltage 
regulating devices, between the proposed site and the substation/area  
● Whether or not three -phase power is available at the site and/or distance from 
three -phase service  
● Limiting conductor rating from proposed Point of Interconnection  to distribution 
substation  
● Based on proposed Point of Interconnection, existing or known constraints such 
as, but not limited to, electrical dependencies at that location, short circuit 
interrupting capacity issues, power quality or stability issues on th e circuit, 
capacity constraints, or secondary networks 
● Any other information the utility deems relevant to the applicant  
 
Requested Basic Distribution System Map Data  
 
Substation  
● Name or identification number 
● Voltages  
● Substation transformer’s Nameplate Rating  
● Existing generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● Queued generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● Total generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● Load profile showing 8760 hours, by substation and transformer  
● Percentage of residential, commercial, industrial customers 
● Currently scheduled upgrades 
● Has protection and/or regulation been upgraded for reverse flow? (yes/no)  
● Number of substation transformers and whether a bus-tie exists  
● Known transmission constraint requires study  
● Notes of any other relevant information to help guide interconnection applicants, 
including electrical restrictions, known constraints, etc.  
 
Feeder  
● Feeder name or identification number  
● Substation the feeder connects to  
● Feeder voltage  
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 97 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  ● Number of phases  
● Substation transformer the feeder connects to  
● Feeder type: radial, network, spot, mesh, etc.  
● Feeder length  
● Feeder conductor size and impedance  
● Service transformer rating  
● Service transformer daytime minimum load 
● Existing generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● Queued generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● Total generation (weekly refresh is desired)  
● 8760 load profile  
● Percentage of residential, commercial, industrial customers 
● Currently scheduled upgrades 
● Federal or state jurisdiction  
● Known transmission constraint requires study  
● Notes of other relevant information to guide interconnection applicants 
How Customers Can Use Distribution System Data  
to Help Site and Guide ESS System Design and Installation  
Below is a description of how customers can use distribution system data to help 
inform ESS siting and design. Note: The data discussed below is not always 
available to or provided by utilities today. Moreover, leveraging distribution system 
data to inform ESS sizing and design would n ot supplant utility review; review would 
still be required and could change design and siting outcomes. 
Map of Distribution System Lines. A customer can use the location of distribution 
system lines to determine what feeder (also called a circuit) they are closest to and 
to design the project to be compatible with that feeder’s characteristics. If there are 
multiple potential POIs for a project, a customer can identify the differences in the 
distribution system at those locations and select the one most suitable for that 
project. 
Existing and Queued Generation. Customers can use the quantity of existing and 
queued generation on a feeder to make a rough estimate of the likelihood that a 
new Interconnection Request will require study or upgrades. Feeders wi th a high 
quantity of existing generation are generally more likely to require study or 
upgrade. The same is true with queued generation, although there is more 
uncertainty associated with queued generation because a customer can cancel the 
project and wit hdraw it from the queue. HCA results provide a more precise 
estimate of the actual available capacity.  
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 98 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
2. Hosting Capacity Analysis  Maps and Results  
In states where hosting capacity maps are being developed, some utilities begin by 
publishing basic distribution system data maps (like those mentioned above) as an interim step before full hosting capacity results are added.
74 This is due to the time and resources 
required to gather data and develop the models and analysis for HCA.75 Producing HCA 
results involves gathering information about the distribution grid, including the physical 
infrastructure (the wires, voltage regula ting devices, substations, transformers, etc.), the 
type and performance of load on the grid (load curves showing maximum and minimum 
load), and the existing DERs (including rooftop solar, ESS, etc.).  
This data is then input into an electronic feeder model to create a “base case” for existing 
grid conditions. In the transmission system interconnection process, developers can 
 
74 See, e.g., CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. 08-08 -009, Renewables Portfolio Standard, Decision 10 -12-048, Decision 
Adopting the Renewable Auctio n Mechanism, pp. 70 -72 (Dec. 17, 2010) (adopting the first basic distribution map in 
California); Electric Power Research Institute, Defining a Roadmap for Successful Implementation of a Hosting Capacity 
Method for New York State , p. 8 (June 20, 2016), https://www.epri.com/research/products/000000003002008848 . 
75 See Electric Power Research Institute,  Defining a Roadmap for Integrating Hosting Capacity in the Interconnection 
Process (Oct. 28, 2020), https://www.epri.com/research/programs/108271/results/3002020010 . Load Profile.  Customers and developers use load profiles to strategically locate 
ESS to provide energy during peak load hours and to minimize export during low 
load/high generation hours. For example, a customer seeking to site a new solar 
project with ESS could use a load profile that avoids expensive distribution system 
upgrades by designing a system that accommodates daily or seasonal variations in 
minimum load with voluntary seasonal or hourly export limits. In addition, a 
customer seeking to site standalone ESS can use the peak load on a feeder to 
understand the magnitude of the proposed new load compared to the existing peak 
loads. Note: When a uti lity shares load profiles, it will need to aggregate or redact 
the data to protect customer privacy according to a state’s regulatory guidance. 
Feeder/Substation Characteristics. Information about the voltage of the line, 
number of phases, presence and rat ing of voltage regulating devices, and other 
specific technical information about the grid conditions at the POI enables 
customers to understand how to size a system and what types of changes may be 
needed to avoid upgrades. For example, large ESS will lik ely need to connect 
directly to a three -phase line.  
Notes. Customers often get useful data from notes that engineers add about the 
known constraints on, or characteristics of, a feeder. For example, the notes field 
might indicate that recent interconnection studies on the feeder found that voltage 
issues constrain available hosting capacity, certain equipment was recently 
installed, or the feeder is abnormally configured.   
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capac ity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 99 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  request access to electronic copies of these base case models via FERC Form 715.76 This 
enables developers to perform their own power flow analysis of the impact of adding new 
resources. This practice is not currently performed at the distribution system level. States may wish to examine whether it is feasible and beneficial to provide electronic distribution system base case models to DER developers under appropriate agreements.  
In creating an HCA, utilities use the base case to perform power flow simulations to evaluate how the distribution grid performs with the addition of new generation and load at specific locations. Significant variations among grid conditions are evaluated to get a full understanding of the grid constraints. While HCAs are a powerful simulation, the modeling exercise is complex and not all grid conditions are necessarily considered in the way they might be for a fu ll system impacts study.
77  
a. Hosting Capacity Analyses as Information Tools to Guide ESS 
Design  
The number of hours analyzed in the HCA’s power flow simulation informs if the HCA can be used by developers to design ESS parameters that capture the benefits discussed above: avoiding negative impacts on the grid, benefiting the grid, and streamlining the interconnection process. HCAs that provide hourly and seasonal results allow developers to design ESS projects that limit output during hours when th e grid has too much energy 
(or other temporary constraints). When an HCA includes an analysis of the impacts of new loads, it can also be used to design ESS to charge when the grid has too much energy. 
Consequently, these systems can be designed to provide  energy to the grid (or the 
customer) during the hours that it is needed most. An important limitation to consider, 
however, is that the grid constraints provided through the HCA are dependent on the quality of the data and modeled conditions on the feeder. HCA models are typically based upon load data from previous years. Load and generation on a feeder may be unpredictable and change over time. Therefore, grid constraints produced through the HCA are an estimate based on previously known conditions and sh ould be treated as such 
when sizing and designing ESS projects. 
Due to potential changes in load and generation patterns, stakeholders disagree on the 
extent to which a customer can design a system to match the hourly or seasonal constraints using just the  HCA results. In concept, an HCA that provides hourly grid 
constraints gives customers the flexibility to propose solar-plus -storage projects that limit 
export only during the most restrictive hours. For example, a line section may be able to support a 2 MW solar generator most of the year, but only a 1 MW solar generator from 10 
 
76 18 Cod e of Federal Regulations § 141.300; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Filing Form No. 715 Annual 
Transmission Planning and Evaluation Report , https://www.ferc.gov/industries -data/electric/general -
information/electric -industry -forms/filing -form -no-715-annual  (last accessed Aug. 11, 2021) (“Part 2, Power Flow Base 
Cases; Part 3, Transmitting Utility Maps and Diagrams”).  
77 There are tradeoffs to consider in terms of the creation of HCA maps. They require utility time and resources to both 
create and maintain. Considerations should weigh the relative cost and usefulness of map features and functionalities, 
data granularity, a nd update frequency.  
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 100 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  AM–3 PM in March and April. An HCA with hourly results would allow a customer to 
propose a 2 MW system and agree to limit its export to 1 MW during those hours in the 
spring when t he constraints arise. The excess solar would be stored by the ESS and 
released at a later time, such as after the sun sets.  
Similarly, an HCA that provides hourly grid constraints may also offer customers the ability to propose an ESS as a flexible load t hat charges from the grid only when there is available 
capacity on the grid. For example, if a line section could support 2 MW of new load from 10 AM –3 PM in March and April, but only 1 MW of new load at other times, an HCA with 
hourly load results would a llow a customer to propose a 2 MW system and agree to limit 
its charging from the grid to 1 MW except during those hours in the spring when oversupply exists. Similarly, developers could utilize the HCA results to help design electric vehicle chargers with  ESS to limit charging during times with constraints, such as during the 
existing net peak hours.  
By limiting export to or charging from the grid in certain hours, the customer can build the 
DER at the desired size and ensure that energy is available when  inflexible loads need it. 
Since capacity constraints typically correspond to periods of high or low energy demand, this enables ESS to serve peak loads more efficiently. If utilities identify other grid needs, the ESS customer could also explicitly agree to provide the services identified. Moreover, 
limiting export and charging to certain hours can also allow customers to avoid time -
consuming interconnection studies and expensive grid upgrades.  
For HCA to be used in this manner, stakeholders will need to understand that specific ESS designs predicated on HCA analysis are relying on modeled data. Hosting capacity values 
on a map provide a snapshot in time and often correspond to a specific DER technology and associated control. Moreover, they may not capture the latest grid or DER queue data 
because projects in the queue are considered tentative until they are interconnected. Any 
time-based HCA constraint curve is based upon the quality and accuracy of the data used 
and may not reflect how conditions change in the future. The constraints can abruptly change based on system configuration or the operation of connected devices such as generation. As a result, design decisions based exclusively on map data do not guarantee interconnection approval without upgrade s. Regulators will need to take this into account 
as they consider how to best utilize HCA maps as an informational or decision -making tool. 
The manner in which the interconnection process should recognize and adapt to these unknowns is an open policy ques tion.  
b. Hosting Capacity Analyses as Decision -Making Tools in the 
Interconnection Review Process for ESS  
One reason HCAs were originally developed was to further inform the interconnection screening process. The goal was to replace or supplement certain interconnection Fast Track screens that use a conservative approximation of feeder conditions with a more sophisticated power flow simulation of the actual conditions on the feeder that can provide more accurate results. HCA is capable of providing a more accurate assessment of impacts than is currently used in several of the more commonly failed screens in the Fast Track and 
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Tools  
 
 101 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Supplemental Review process. Results may directly answer certain interconnection 
screens and can also be used to verify that the scre ening process as a whole correctly 
captures DER -related impacts. In short, hosting capacity results can be aligned to inform 
interconnection screening if the analyzed DER characteristics and conditions in the HCA are the same as those in the Interconnectio n Request.  
For example, California has required the use of HCA results (or Integration Capacity Analysis, as HCA is called in California) instead of the 15% screen.
78 The 15% screen 
evaluates if the total generation on the feeder exceeds 15% of a line sect ion’s peak load. 
The 15% screen was designed as a conservative rule -of-thumb based on generic feeder 
assumptions to approximate when the increased penetration of DERs on a feeder could 
trigger voltage, thermal, and protection problems. In contrast, the HCA  actually examines 
if the project will result in any specific voltage, thermal, and protection problems based on 
the historic load at that precise node, rather than using a heuristic that approximates problems based on a generic feeder. As a result, in certain circumstances. new DERs can interconnect safely using the Fast Track process even when the project would have failed the legacy 15% screen, and in others, it may flag an issue where the more generic screen failed to.  
In contrast, the models and data that are used in HCA may lack the information needed to address screens that assess secondary or service transformer configuration and ratings. In general, HCA will not benefit screens that check for physical characteristics of the distribution system and cannot replace engineering judgment related to those 
characteristics. It is also important to note that there are potential impacts that current hosting capacity methods do not address, such as substation and transmission system impacts as well as secondary or low voltage impacts. Therefore, current HCA methods implemented by utilities alone cannot replace the entire screening process.  
Publishing hourly HCA grid constraints and using those same HCA results in the interconnection process unlocks the potential for DER design improvements that can allow projects to more efficiently proceed through the interconnection process and into 
operation. As noted, there is disagreement on the extent to which the hourly HCA profile 
can be used as a final decision -making tool. Nevertheless, building on the example above, 
the customer could submit an interconnection application for a solar-plus -storage project 
with an export limit of 1 MW during the hours when the HCA identified that a constraint 
exists (from 10 AM –3 PM in March and April). Because the published HCA results, upon 
which the customer designed the project, would be the basis of certain Fast Track screens, 
the customer has a greater level of certainty that the project’s operating profile would allow it to pass t hose Fast Track screens and avoid time -consuming interconnection studies and 
system upgrade costs. 
 
78 CA Pub. Util. Comm., Dkt. R.17 -07-007, Interconnection of Distributed Energy Resources and Improvements to Rule 
21, Decision 20 -09-035, Decision Adopting Recommendations from Working Groups Two, Three, and Subgroup  (Sept. 
30, 2020).  
 
 
VI. Improving Grid Transparency Through Hosting Capacity Analyses and Other Too ls 
 
 102 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  If used in this manner, HCA could help enable ESS to be designed in ways that address 
specific grid constraints and help to improve the efficiency of the int erconnection process 
for DERs. As discussed, to unlock these benefits, HCAs would need to provide hourly information about grid constraints. At the same time, potential benefits would need to be weighed against the limitations of such an analysis to lock in an ESS design, as well as the 
costs to develop and maintain these complex analyses of hourly grid constraints. Future 
research could provide further clarity on these considerations. In addition, there are a variety of other issues that regulators, stakeh olders, and utilities will need to consider when 
deciding how to implement an HCA, including: 
● Use case  
● Type of stakeholder engagement process  
● Phased implementation process 
● Methodology  
● Update cycle  
● Number and type of load hours for the analysis 
● Whether the scope will include new load, new generation, or both  
● Granularity of analysis and results 
● Level of public access and security concerns, if any  
● Level of data redaction to protect customer privacy 
● Data validation process 
● Limiting criteria and thresholds to use  
● Cost of developing and maintaining maps  
 
These identified issues are explored more fully in the guide, Key Decisions for Hosting Capacity Analyses, available on IREC’s Hosting Capacity Analyses Resources webpage .
79 
 
  
 
79 Sky Stanfield, Yochi Zakai, Matthew McKerley. Key Decisions for Hosting Capacity Analyses, Interstate Renewable 
Energy Council, pp. 15-17 (Sept. 2021), https://irecu sa.org/resources/keydecisions-for -hosting -capacity -analyses.  
 VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design
       Changes During Interconnection
       Review Process to Mitigate the Need
       for Upgrades
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 103 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the 
Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate the Need for 
Upgrades 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement 
As projects go thro ugh the interconnection process, utilities may identify system impacts 
caused by the project that necessitate distribution system upgrades. Some storage 
projects can make changes in proposed charging and discharging behavior, inverter functions, or export amounts that could mitigate the need for upgrades identified by the utility. Since the system impacts may not be known until after the screening or study process, interconnection customers would like to be able to modify projects after receiving 
results without submitting a new application and losing their interconnection queue 
position. However, the interconnection review process typically is not designed to allow for customers to undertake project design changes that could help to avoid grid upgrades and minimize interconnection delays during the review process. 
In most jurisdictions, if the utility finds that grid upgrades are needed for a project to proceed, the customer is often given two choices: (1) to pay for the upgrades, or (2) to withdraw the project, forfeit their place in the interconnection queue, and submit a new design and application. Most procedures do not expressly allow design changes as a third option. The time delays and costs associated with this practice can be substantial for both  
utilities and customers.  
From the customer perspective, the major barriers to a more efficient interconnection review process include: 1) the lack of data access that may help them design and site projects to avoid grid constraints at the outset or redesign utility -reviewed projects to 
mitigate impacts, and 2) the lack of clear steps that could enable them to address system impacts following utility review and understand when restudy is required. From a utility standpoint, the main challenge is the staff t ime required to review resubmitted 
applications, screen projects for impacts, or engage in back -and -forth dialogues with 
customers to resolve outstanding issues. In addition, utilities and interconnection customers as a group may be reluctant to employ inf ormal resolution approaches for fear 
that customers farther back in the queue may object to accommodating customers who are given an opportunity to make revisions to a project without surrendering their queue position. Utilities also must strive to provide  equal treatment to all customers. 
Some states and utilities have incorporated new processes to ensure sufficient data is provided with screening and study results and to provide customers with an option to resolve interconnection issues via certain allowe d design changes while remaining in the 
queue. Based on current practices as well as information provided by developers and utilities, it is recommended these features be included in interconnection rules and related procedures in order to increase the successful interconnection of DERs. Storage 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 104 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  capabilities to modify export can be leveraged to tailor the DER system to grid constraints 
when using these practices.  
 
B. Types of System Modifications That an ESS Could Implement to 
Mitigate Impacts  
Due to the f lexibility that ESS provides, both to the customer and as a resource to the grid, 
it is important to recognize the manner in which system parameters may be changed to mitigate impacts identified during the interconnection process. The below paragraphs discuss the various modifications that may be utilized by an ESS project to mitigate or avoid impacts during the review process. 
An ESS project may offer one or more use cases, such as self -supply and peak shaving. 
The ESS may employ operating schedules, poten tially through the use of a Power Control 
System (PCS) or other export limiting equipment (see Chapter III for a discussion of the 
methods for controlling export and Chapter IX  for further discussion of how the use of 
schedules can be relied upon and communicated to the utility). Also note that the same 
storage system may offer grid support functions (such as volt -var or fixed power factor) 
though this is not explored further he rein since it applies to all inverter-based DERs.  
PCS can be utilized by interconnection customers to limit export to the distribution system to a value less than the Nameplate Rating of the DER. Customers with storage may include PCS in their DER design, either in the original application or as a design change to address an identified impact (such as maintaining export limits within distribution system constraints). Where a PCS was included in the original DER design, the utility will have evaluated the system’s proposed Export Capacity in its analysis and screens, per Chapter IV . To address 
certain impacts, it may be possible for the customer to revise the Export Capacity to a new limit. On the other hand, where a PCS was not  included in the original DER design, the utility 
will have evaluated the system’s full nameplate capacity in its analysis. It is possible for the 
customer to add PCS equipment that would change the Export Capacity to a new limit. 
Customers may wish to ope rate ESS in a manner that mitigates impacts during periods with 
grid constraints. As an example, during days (or hours) where the grid is restricted, the storage system could be scheduled to charge or discharge following a local operating schedule or 
one b ased on control signals. Where an ESS operating schedule is verifiable and can maximize 
hosting capacity and mitigate impacts during grid constraint periods, a customer could be 
allowed to modify the ESS operating schedule such that Export Capacity does not increase beyond a predetermined value. Alternatively, where utility control systems (such as a distributed energy resource management system, or DERMS) are deployed, signaling may be used to change export limits dynamically in response to real- time grid constraints.  
Customers may consider adding storage to a DER design (that did not originally contain ESS) in order to address identified upgrades or screen failures. For example, an exporting PV system could charge an ESS which could then discharge at  a later time (“time -shifting") 
and implement a reduced Export Capacity. This concept could be extended by applying a 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 105 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  schedule or dynamic signal to avoid grid constraints at certain hours. Note that adding AC -
coupled energy storage increases the Nameplate Rating of the DER as well as the rated 
fault current. Where a PCS maintains or decreases Export Capacity, adding AC -coupled 
storage can be acceptable, but the utility may need to reassess the fault current impacts. 
In the initial application, the interconn ection customer will identify the proposed ESS 
operating profile and the utility will evaluate such characteristics in the applicable 
screening and/or study process. The following sections will provide recommendations on how information can be provided during the interconnection review process to: (1) identify 
where modifications may be feasible to mitigate impacts, and then (2) provide defined 
opportunities for any of the above storage characteristics to be modified, so long as they are designed to mitigat e the grid impacts identified in the screen or study results.  
C. Recommendations  
This chapter addresses how to enable storage projects to mitigate system impacts within the review process through three sets of recommendations. First, the chapter recommend s 
interconnection procedure language to require that the information provided to customers through the screening results data be sufficiently detailed to enable the customer to understand the constraints identified and, thereby, how a project may be modified to address the constraints. Second, the chapter provides examples of detailed screen and study results that utilities could use to relay useful data to the customer. Finally, the chapter recommends interconnection procedure language that would alter the  Supplemental 
Review and study processes to allow the customer to act on the information provided by implementing DER design modifications.  
1. Interconnection Procedures Should Be Revised to Provide More 
Data on Failed Screens  
Several state interconnection  rules provide some direction to the utility in terms of the content 
relayed to the customer when Fast Track screening results are delivered. Updated 
interconnection rules portray this directive in varying levels of detail.80 These general 
guidelines often  can be interpreted quite loosely and give a lot of leeway to the utility in terms 
of how much information is provided. This results in different approaches from different utilities and varying levels of information provided to the customer. More recent proposals to update 
interconnection procedures aim to give more specific guidance so that a minimum level of 
information is provided.
81 To ensure that the customer has enough information to make design 
 
80 Code MD Regs. 20.50.09.10.H (April 6, 2021) (“If the small generator facility is not approved under a Level 2 review, 
the utility shall provide the applicant written notification explaining its reasons for denying the interconnection 
request.”); New York Standardized Interconnection Requirements (March 2021) I.C Step 4 (“…the utility shall provide 
the technical reasons, data and analysis supporting the Preliminary Screening Analysis results in w riting.”)  
81 IL Commerce Comm., Dkt. 20 -0700, Amendment of 83 Ill. Adm. Code 466 and 83 Ill. Adm. Code 467, Second Notice 
Order  (Aug. 12, 2021) 466.100.b.5.B (“If one or more screens are not passed, the EDC shall provide, in writing, the 
specific screens th at the application failed, including the technical reason for failure. The EDC shall provide information 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 106 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  decisions, the rule should give as specific guidance as possible on what results should convey. 
Accordingly, it is recommended that the description of data and analyses ( e.g., SGIP 2.2 Init ial 
Review) be revised to specify the level of detail that should be provided as follows: 
Within 15 Business Days after the Transmission  Distribution  Provider notifies the 
Interconnection Customer it has received a complete Interconnection Request, the Transmission  Distribution
 Provider shall perform an initial review using the screens set 
forth below, shall notify the Interconnection Customer of the results, and include with the notification copies of the analysis and data underlying the Transmission  
Distribution  Provider's determinations under the screens. If one or more screens are 
not passed, the Distribution Provider shall provide, in writing, the specific screens that 
the Interconnection Request failed, including the technical reason for failure. The 
Distribution Provider shall provide information and detail about the specific system 
threshold or limitation causing the Interconnection Request to fail the screen.  
 
2. Screening Results Should Provide Relevant and Useful Data  
Ideally, when Fast Track scree n results are provided, full information about each screen 
would be given such that the customer would be able to ascertain exactly what changes to the DER system could allow it to pass the screen (and thereby avoid the need for upgrades). More helpful still may be to provide suggested design changes that would reduce interconnection hurdles. Utilities may believe, however, that the latter goes beyond their responsibility in the interconnection process and prefer to simply relay information.  
The project team reviewed screening results from utilities in Hawaii, Illinois, Minnesota, 
and North Carolina to determine the range of data currently provided. The type and amount of data provided varied significantly, with some utilities providing a simp le “pass” 
or “fail” for each screen and others providing more detailed data. Given the likelihood of data being available to the utility during the screening process, a list of preferable screen results data is presented in the recommendations. With the ex ception of proposed 
inadvertent export screen 2.2.1.3 and some of the data in Supplemental Review screen 2.4.4.2, this type of data has been provided by one or more of the utilities reviewed. Utilities should provide data for each screen when providing Fast Track results to the customer, as noted in Table 5 below. Additionally, some ideal screen result examples are provided 
following the table. Since utilities vary in their application of the Supplemental Review screens for volt age, power quality, and safety and reliability, full guidance cannot be given, 
but similarly detailed data should be provided for all screens applied. 
 
and detail about the specific system threshold or limitation causing the application to fail the screen.”); MA Dept. of 
Pub. Util. Dkt. 19 -55, Massachu setts Joint Stakeholders Consensus Revisions to the Standards for Interconnection of 
Distributed Generation Tariff (“DG Interconnection Tariff”) to Address the  
Interconnection of Energy Storage Systems  (Feb. 26, 2020) 3.3(e) (“If one or more Screens are no t passed, the 
Company shall provide, in writing, the specific Screen(s) that the Application failed, including the technical reason for failure. The Company shall provide information and detail about the specific system threshold or limitation causing the 
Application to fail the Screen.”).  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 107 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table 5. Data Provisions for Individual SGIP Screens  
SGIP Screen  Description  Data to Provide  Initial Review  2.2.1.2  15% of annual section 
peak load (or 100% 
minimum load)  Load (peak or min imum), aggregate generation (or 
Export Capacity), and percentage of load. For 
interconnection rules that integrate time -based load 
data into the screening process, provide the minimum 
load time window.  
New screen  Inadvertent Export 
voltage change screen  Provide values in the equation:  
(𝑹𝑹𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆 ×∆𝑷𝑷)– (𝑿𝑿𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆  × ∆𝑸𝑸)
𝑽𝑽𝟐𝟐 = ∆𝑽𝑽 
2.2.1.3  Spot network (5% of 
network peak load or 
50 kW)  Peak load, aggregate generation on network, and 
percentage of load.  
2.2.1.4  10% of maximum fault 
current  Aggregate generation fault current on circuit, 
distribution circuit max fault current, percentage of max 
fault current, assumptions for customer’s DER (e.g., 
fault current = 1.2x inverter Nameplate Rating).  
2.2.1.5  87.5% of short circuit 
interrupting capability  Short circuit interrupting rating at limiting (lowest rated) 
equipment in- line with DER, aggregate DER fault 
current contribution, distribution circuit max fault 
current nearest PCC, total short circuit current, 
percentage of short circuit interrupting rating.  
2.2.1.6  Line configuration  Distribution line type, interconnection (customer 
service) type.  
2.2.1.7  Shared secondary 
transformer 20 kW  Aggregate DER rating (or export) on shared secondary, 
for screens that use 65% of transformer rating instead 
of 20 kW provide transformer rating and percentage of 
rating.  
2.2.1.8  Single -phase imbalance  Transformer rating, imbalance as percentage of rating.  
2.2.1.9  10 MVA transient 
stability  Aggregate generation, whether there are known 
transient stability limitations.  Supplemental  Review  2.4.4.1  100% minimum load  Min load, aggregate generation (or export), percentage 
of load, time period under consideration (e.g., hours of 
the day based on fixed vs. tracking PV).  
2.4.4.2  Voltage and power 
quality  This list is not exhaustive and would be dependent on the 
applied criteria. E.g., if non- bidirectional regulators 
experiencing reverse flow: maximum reverse power at 
regulator; If overvoltage is flagged at minimum load: 
maximum reverse power with customer’ s DER, maximum 
reverse power before triggering voltage limit violation.  
2.4.4.3  Safety and reliability  This list is not exhaustive and would be dependent on 
the applied criteria. E.g., conductor loading: limiting 
conductor ampacity, total current, loading as a 
percentage of ampacity.  
Covering all screens  kW of existing DER in -line section and DER ahead in 
queue.  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 108 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
The below examples contain screen language inclusive of the recommendations of 
Chapter IV . 
 
Example: An Ideal 15% Screen Result  
For interconnection of a proposed DER to a radial distribution circuit, the aggregated 
Export Capacity, including the proposed DER, on the circuit shall not exceed 15% of the 
line section annual peak load as most recently measured. A line section is that portion of 
a Distribution Provider’s electric system connected to a customer bounded by automatic 
sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line.  
Export Capacity of DER Application   kW 
Export Capacity of Active DER on Feeder   kW 
Export Capacity of DER ahead in Queue   kW 
15% of Peak Load   kW 
Aggregate Export Capacity, Including Proposed DER   kW 
Export Capacity of DER, as % of Load   % 
Passes Screen  No  
 
Example: An Ideal Shared Transformer Screen Result  
If the proposed DER is to be interconnected on a single -phase shared secondary, the 
aggregate Export Capacity on the shared secondary, including the proposed DER, shall 
not exceed 20 kW or 65% of the transformer Nameplate Rating.  
Export Capacity of DER Application   kW 
Export Capacity of DER Active on Feeder   kW 
Export Capacity of DER Ahead in Queue   kW 
Export Capacity of Aggregate DER on Shared Secondary:   kW 
Transformer Nameplate Rating:   kW 
Export Capacity of Aggregate DER, as a % of Transformer 
Nameplate Rating:   % 
Passes Screen  No  
 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 109 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Example: An Ideal Protection Screen Result  
The fault current of the proposed DER, in aggregate with the fault current of other DER on 
the distribution circuit, shall not cause any distribution protective devices and equipment 
(including, but not limited to, substation breakers, fuse cutouts, and line reclosers) or 
Interconnection Customer equipment on the system t o exceed 87.5% of the short circuit 
interrupting capability; nor shall interconnection be proposed for a circuit that already 
exceeds 87.5% of the short circuit interrupting capability. 
Nameplate Rating of DER Application   kW 
Nameplate Rating of DER Active on Feeder   kW 
Nameplate Rating of DER Ahead in Queue   kW 
Lowest Short Circuit Interrupting Rating of Equipment in Line 
with DER:   Amps  
Aggregate DER Fault Current Contribution:   Amps  
Distribution Circuit Maximum Fault Current Nearest the PCC:   Amps  
Total Available Short Circuit Current   Amps  
% of Short Circuit Interrupting Rating:   % 
Passes Screen  Yes  
 
Example: An Ideal 100% Minimum Load Supplemental Review Result  
Where 12 months of line section minimum load data (including onsite load but not station 
service load served by the proposed DER) are available, can be calculated, can be 
estimated from existing data, or determined from a power flow model, the aggregate 
Export Capacity on the line section shall be less than 100% of the minimum load for all 
line sections bounded by automatic sectionalizing devices upstream of the proposed 
DER. If minimum load data is not available, or cannot be calculated, estimated, or 
dete rmined, the Distribution Provider shall include the reason(s) that it is unable to 
calculate, estimate, or determine minimum load in its Supplemental Review results 
notification.  
Export Capacity of DER Application   kW 
Export Capacity of DER Active on Feeder   kW 
Export Capacity of DER Ahead in Queue   kW 
Relevant Time Period  __ am/pm to __ am/pm  
Minimum Load   kW 
Aggregate Export Capacity, Including Proposed DER   kW 
DER as % of Load   % 
Passes Screen  Yes  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 110 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  3. Impact Study Results Should Provide Analysis of Alternate 
Options  
System impact studies are much broader in scope and require more detailed analysis 
compared to the screening process. Identifying the universe of data and information to be provided in study results is therefore challenging and interconnection rules typically describe such results in broad terms. For instance, SGIP attachment 7 (system impact study agreement) states:  
A system impact study shall consist of a short circuit analysis, a stability analysis, a power flow analysis, voltage drop and flicker studies, protection and set point coordination studies, and grounding reviews, as necessary. A system impact study shall state the assumptions upon which it is based, state the results of the analyses, and provide the requ irement or potential impediments to providing the requested 
interconnection service, including a preliminary indication of the cost and length of time that would be necessary to correct any problems identified in those analyses 
and implement the interconne ction. A system impact study shall provide a list of 
facilities that are required as a result of the Interconnection Request and non -
binding good faith estimates of cost responsibility and time to construct . 
While the Impact Study is meant to analyze the  impact of the DER system described in the 
application, developers may be interested in tailoring the DER to avoid or mitigate any 
distribution system constraints. Data about these constraints may be limited at the time of 
application, due either to lack o f access to the type of information described in Chapter VI  
or effects from earlier -queued systems. In addition to the full study results which are 
normally provided, it would be useful to provide interconnection customers wit h an 
analysis of potential changes to the DER system which would eliminate or reduce the need 
for distribution system upgrades. 
From the developer perspective, a transparent, collaborative process between the utility 
and developer that helps to refine the proposed DER design in a manner that maximizes the benefits to the customer while also benefitting, or at least minimizing the impact on, the distribution system would be ideal. A step in this direction, without completely revamping the interconnection pro cess, would be to provide a limited analysis of 
alternative DER configurations. For efficiency, studying these alternative configurations would best be done during the normal timeframe of the study, rather than requiring restudy 
after the results are delivered. Some utilities regularly provide this type of analysis as part 
of the study results, though they vary in how that information is evaluated or presented. As discussed below in Chapter VII.C.6 , this analysis can be g uided by discussion between the 
utility and developer. As an example, a reduced Nameplate Rating or modified power factor (PF) setting may be noted as a less expensive solution to an identified upgrade. Below is an example table similar to that provided in  one utility’s study results and includes 
mitigations that address identified impacts. 
Table 6. Example Study Results With Alternate Options  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 111 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Upgrade Required  Option 1  
X MW  Option 2  
X MW @ 99% 
PF Option 3  
0.8*X MW  Failures Addressed  
3VO Installation  $ 600,000 $ 600,000 $ 0 Overvoltage Transmission 
System Fault  
Load Tap Changer Bi -
Directional Co- Generation 
Capability  $ 0 
 $ 0 
 $ 30,000 Substation Regulation for 
Reverse Power  
Supervisory Control and 
Data Acquisition (SCADA) 
With Direct Transfer Trip  $ 120,000 $ 120,000 $ 120,000 Unintentional Islanding  
Existing Utility Recloser 
Upgrade  $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 60,000 Unintentional Islanding  
Upgrade Voltage 
Regulator Controls  $ 15,000  $ 0 $ 0 High Voltage  
Total  $ 795,000 $ 780,000 $ 210,000  
 
4. Processes Should Allow for Design Modifications to Mitigate 
Impacts 
Interconnection customers may have various reasons to modify their projects during the 
interconnection process or after a project is already constructed ( e.g., certain equipment 
is no longer available in the marketplace forcing the customer to change the identified equipment, policy changes may necessitate design changes, or the project may want to mitigate impacts). Therefore, it is important to have well-documented sections in the interconnection rules that provide guidance on whether and how design changes can be accommodated.  
Currently, many state interconnection procedures have one overarching section which addresses what type of modifications can be made and how they will be evaluated; this is typically known as the “Material Modification” process.
82 SGIP defines a material 
modification as any modification that may have “a material impa ct on the cost or timing of 
 
82 See, e.g. , Minnesota Distributed Energy Resources Interconnection Procedures, Section 1.6 (provides a process for 
identifying whether a proposed modification constitutes a material modification and specifies that modifications that 
are deemed to be material will require withdrawal of the interconnection application and resubmittal); California Rule 21  
table F.1 defines Type I modifications under the Fast -Track process, while section Ee defines Type II Modifications 
refer ring to existing facilities, and each provide descriptions of changes that require a new interconnection application 
and those that do not; MA Dept. of Pub. Util. Dkt. 19 -55, Hearing Officer Memorandum Announcing the Department of 
Public Utilities‘ Interim  Guidance -- Energy Storage Systems II, ESS Decision Tree (Feb. 28, 2020) provides interim 
guidance on DC - and AC -coupled systems that seek to add ESS after the initial interconnection application 
(https://fileservice.eea.comacloud.net/FileService.Api/file/FileRoom/11862820 ). 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 112 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  any Interconnection Request with a later queue priority date.” Some states include a 
specific list of the types of changes that are, or are not, considered material.83 In general 
though, changes that would require a re -evaluation or restudy of a project, such as an 
increase in Export Capacity, extension of operating profile, or addition or removal of ESS, 
are typically deemed material and thus require submittal of a new interconnection 
application.  
However, in order to enable DER system design to be altered to respond to screening or 
study results, it is necessary to create a separate process that enables certain changes 
that might otherwise be deemed material. These changes should be treated differe ntly 
from modifications proposed at other points in the process, so long as they are proposed 
at a designated time following the screening or study process and are specifically tailored 
to mitigate identified impacts. Changes proposed at other times or for other reasons 
should be reviewed under existing material modifications provisions. The following sections recommend where these changes should be allowed during the screening and study processes.  
 
5. Allowance for Design Changes After Supplemental Review   
Having the information provided via screen results as described in section VII.C.2  above 
should give a developer an understanding of the grid constraints at that location if a screen is failed. However, according to SGIP and most interconnection procedures today, if a screen is failed and the utility cannot determine that the system can still be safely and reliably interconnected, the project must then proceed to Supplemental Review or full study. During the Supplemental Review process, additional screens are applied which may 
provide further detail on whether system upgrades are required and also provide an 
opportunity to identify if modifications might be made to address the identified constraints. 
Allowing for a short period of design change and review,  as necessary, would help more 
projects move forward quickly with minimal effects on the queue. These changes could incorporate some material modifications yet still allow for review without withdrawal and resubmittal of the application.  
The recommended la nguage below allows projects to redesign the DER system within 
certain constraints during Supplemental Review. This would allow for changes such as a decrease in nameplate capacity or Export Capacity, or potentially changes to the operating schedule (where  such can be evaluated during the Supplemental Review process). This 
approach is not included in Initial Review since the achievable timeline would not be significantly different compared to application withdrawal and resubmittal. Additionally, most states  have conservative, non -detailed Initial Review screens. Thus, after application 
of the initial Fast Track screens, the customer will not yet have sufficient information about whether upgrades are indeed required, and correspondingly, what project modifica tions 
 
83 See e.g., New York Standardized Interconnection Requirements , p. 39 (March 2021) (definition of material 
modification includes examples).  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 113 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  may be needed or possible.84 Thus, where states do include more detailed screens in Initial 
Review ( e.g., comparing the operating schedule to available capacity evaluated on a 
seasonal or monthly basis) then this approach could be applied effectively  within Initial 
Review as well.  
To amend the Supplemental Review process in response to screen failures (SGIP section 
2.4.5), the following changes are recommended: 
If the proposed interconnection passes the supplemental screens in sections 
2.4.4.1, 2.4.4.2, and 2.4.4.3 above, the Interconnection Request shall be approved and the Transmission Distribution Provider will provide the Interconnection 
Customer with an exec utable interconnection agreement within the timeframes 
established in sections 2.4.5.1 and 2.4.5.2 below. If the proposed interconnection 
fails any of the supplemental review screens the Distribution Provider shall 
specify which screens the application failed, including the technical reason for 
failure, and the data and the analysis supporting the supplemental review. The 
Distribution Provider shall provide information and detail about the specific 
system threshold or limitation causing the Interconnection Request to fail the 
screen. If the Interconnection Customer chooses to amend the Interconnection 
Request to address the specific failed screens, the Interconnection Customer 
must submit an updated Interconnection Request demonstrating the redesign 
within t en Business Days after receiving the screen results. The redesign shall 
only include changes to address the screen failures or identified upgrades (which 
could include, for example, the addition of DC -coupled or AC -coupled energy 
storage). Increases in Exp ort Capacity or changes in Point of Interconnection are 
not permitted and shall require the Interconnection Request to be withdrawn and 
resubmitted. The Distribution Provider will evaluate whether the redesign 
addresses the screen failure and notify the In terconnection Customer of the 
results of this evaluation within ten Business Days. This redesign option to 
mitigate impacts shall only be available one time during the Supplemental Review 
process. If and the Interconnection Customer does not amend or withd raw its 
Interconnection Request, it shall continue to be evaluated under the section 3 Study Process consistent with section 2.4.5.3 below. 
Commissions may want to require that the customer pay a fixed fee for the additional 
review, or require that a deposit on the actual costs of the review be provided by the 
customer.  
 
 
84 In response to failing the 15% of peak load screen (SGIP 2.2.1.2) as modified per the recommendations of Chapter IV, 
a customer could elect to install a non-exporting system. In response to failing the shared secondary transformer 
screen (SGIP 2.2.1.7) as modified per Chapter IV , a customer could elect to reduce Export Capacity.  
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 114 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  6. Allowance for Design Changes Within Full Study  
a. Study Options  
As mentioned in VII.C.3  above, it is helpful for alternate configurations to be evaluated 
during the Impact Study, such that a developer can choose to reduce interconnection costs 
with modifications to the initial DER design that have already been evaluated by the utility. Since  the utility will have studied the alternate configurations already, this should allow the 
developer to avoid further study and move straight to an interconnection agreement as long as they agree to change the design in line with the options that were stud ied.  
During the scoping meeting, the developer should indicate the types of DER system changes they would be open to considering. For utilities that can evaluate an operating schedule as discussed in Chapter IX, a reduction in Export Capacity for certain hours of 
the year could be considered. This would help a developer take advantage of an ESS’s customizable nature, designing around constraints that may exist for only a small portion of the year (for example, low loading).  
It is recommended that the developer and utility agree during the scoping meeting to evaluate up to three different options, one being the original design (or as agreed to be modified during the scoping meeting). The other two options could contain a numbe r of 
changes to system parameters such as, but not limited to: 
● Reduction in Nameplate Rating or Export Capacity  
● Modification to DER voltage regulation  
● Operating profile modification ( e.g., a fixed discharge/export schedule or a 
reduction in Export Capacit y for certain hours of the year)  
● Dynamic control ( e.g., commanded curtailment)  
The utility should indicate how each type of alternate DER design can be incorporated into 
the study. It is recommended that the analysis of alternate designs be memorialized in the 
system impact study agreement ( e.g., SGIP Attachment 7), though flexibilit y to change 
alternate options through mutual agreement should be maintained as the study is underway. 
While these types of analyses are not required by interconnection rules today, it may be 
beneficial for Commissions to explore if and how such practices c ould be harmonized and 
codified.  
Design modification outside of those options already evaluated may require further study 
and can be accommodated by the process set forth below. 
b. Post -Results Modifications  
Due to high interconnection cost estimates, even within the options studied per the previous discussion, modifications to the DER system outside the alternate options may be desired. A process for modifications in the study process, similar to that propose d above 
for Fast Track projects, is desirable and will help ESS projects move forward with changes 
 
 
VII. Pathways to Allow for System Design Changes During the Interconnection Review Process to Mitigate 
the Need for Upgrades  
 
 115 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  to system design or a modified operating profile. Most interconnection rules already 
include some measure for allowing changes deemed “non -material,” but it is 
recommended that an explicit process be defined for modifications after study results are delivered.
85 
It is recommended that a new section be added to the interconnection rules, such as a new section 3.4.10 for SGIP, as follows. 
3.4.10 A one -time modif ication of the Interconnection Request is allowed as a 
result of information from the system impact study report. If the Interconnection 
Customer chooses to amend the Interconnection Request to address the specific 
system impacts, the Interconnection Custo mer must submit an updated 
Interconnection Request demonstrating the redesign within fifteen Business Days 
after receiving the system impact study results from the Distribution Provider 
under section 3.5.1. The redesign shall only include changes designed to address 
the specific system impacts or identified upgrades (which could include, for 
example, the addition of DC -coupled or AC -coupled energy storage). This 
redesign option to mitigate impacts shall only be available one time during the 
Study Process. I ncreases in Export Capacity or changes in Point of 
Interconnection are not permitted and shall require the Interconnection Request 
to be withdrawn and resubmitted.  
The Distribution Provider shall notify the Interconnecting Customer within ten 
Business Days of receipt of the modified Interconnection Request if any additional 
information is needed. If additional information is needed or document 
corrections are required, the Interconnection Customer shall provide the required 
information or corrections within ten Business Days from receipt of the 
Distribution Provider notice. 
The actual costs to Distribution Provider for any necessary restudies as a result of 
a modification described above shall be paid by the Interconnection Customer. 
Such restudies should be limited to the impacts of the modification and shall be 
billed to the Interconnection Customer at cost and not for work previously 
completed. The Distribution Provider shall use reasonable efforts to limit the scope 
of such restudies to what is necessary. The revised impact study shall be completed 
within fifteen business days.  
 
85 For example, Maine Chapter 324 section 12(D)(1) specifies this type of modification specific to the full study (Level 4) 
process.  
 VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection
        Standards Into Interconnection
        Procedures
 
 
VIII. Incorporati ng Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 116 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into 
Interconnection Procedures 
A. Introduction and Problem Statement 
ESS adoption is increasing across the country, and syst em designs are also rapidly 
evolving along with the market. Standards related to ESS are changing concurrently or 
being developed for the first time. Interconnection procedures that fail to incorporate the most recent standards can pose a significant barrier to the cost -effective interconnection 
of ESS, as well as the effective enablement of the various functionalities that storage can offer. Where standards are either not used, or are outdated, it can be more difficult or impossible for customers to obtain  approval to interconnect ESS in a manner that enables 
storage systems to use their full range of capabilities, or to maximize ESS benefits to customers and grid operators. Utilizing available standards streamlines interconnection by having a common set of  requirements across jurisdictions. Importantly, it also allows for 
third-party certification to the standard and simplifies the process for verifying that ESS will operate in a certain way. Whenever possible, interconnection rules and technical requiremen ts should defer to standards to maximize the benefit of their use.  
This chapter identifies areas of interconnection rules where including updates to new or 
existing standards for interconnected DER (including microgrids) is beneficial for ESS 
interconnect ion. Additionally, it reviews topics that are not exclusively related to ESS, such 
as export control capabilities, to identify how standards could help streamline ESS interconnection. This chapter also explains how the standards facilitate ESS interconnect ion and provides guidance for regulators seeking to adopt or incorporate the 
identified standards, with model language where relevant. The recommendations include guidance on how to draft or modify interconnection technical requirements, interconnection procedures, interconnection application and agreement forms, and other related documents.
86 
The project team reviewed eighty -six different standards and related documents for the 
BATRIES project. Of the eighty -six reviewed documents, the project team found only the 
IEEE 1547 series, UL 1741 and the Certification Requirement Decision (CRD) for Pow er 
Control Systems,87 and IEEE C62.92.6 to be relevant to ESS interconnection. 
The significance of IEEE 1547 to storage interconnections cannot be understated. For instance, IEEE 1547 -2018 —the base standard which the other IEEE 1547 series standards 
comple ment —establishes the technical criteria for DERs interconnected with the 
distribution system, covering performance and interoperability requirements for 
 
86 As described in the introduction, recommendations are based on the FERC SGIP as a reference point for developing 
model language.  
87 Certification Requirement Decision for Power Control Systems (March 8, 2019), issued for UL 1741, the Standard for 
Inverters, Converters, Controllers and Interconnection System Equipment for Use with Distributed Energy Resources.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 117 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  interconnected DERs. As such, IEEE 1547-2018 is the go -to standard for DER installations, 
including ESS . Complementing IEEE 1547 -2018 are:  
• IEEE 1547.1- 2020 is the conformance test standard that ensures compliance with the 
base standard 
• IEEE P1547.2 is a draft guide to applying the base standard and its conformance 
testing  
• IEEE P1547.9 is a draft guide to using the base standard for interconnection of ESS  
The entire IEEE 1547 series of standards and guides (or draft guides) were considered in 
this chapter. Still, there are some elements within IEEE 1547 where it is unclear how the 
standard applies to ESS, especially issues related to the bidirectional nature of ESS 
(charging/discharging) and export control capabilities.  
This chapter also describes how to use IEEE C62.92.6 -2017 to streamline ESS 
interconnections and help utility engineers analyze inverter-based DERs. The guide, when used alongside IEEE 1547- 2018 and concepts from IEEE 1547.2, aids in the proper 
evaluation of effective grounding for inverter- based systems.  
In addition to IEEE 1547, the UL 1741 CRD for PCS also applies to the interconnection of ESS. The CRD highlights certified control methods within a Power Control System, which can be used to streamline inverter-based DER interconnection. This standard is discussed 
here and also in Chapter III  and Appendix B .  
The standards discuss ed herein most often directly relate to interconnection technical 
requirements, which interact with rules and regulations in three ways. First, some states 
include technical requirements in interconnection procedures (see California Rule 21). Second, in so me states, regulators approve a separate technical standards document for 
the entire state (see Minnesota’s Technical Interconnection and Interoperability Requirements), or allow utilities to publish their own technical requirements documents. Third, in so me states, no publicly available technical requirements documents exist.  
The application of these standards to interconnection rules is fairly nascent, given that interconnection rules evolve slowly and some of the standards were published recently. 
The b elow recommendations to use these standards are based on expert opinion, but 
many are not yet used in state or utility interconnection requirements. 
 
B. UL 1741 Certification Requirement Decision for Power Control 
Systems  
It is expected that the PCS tests currently found in the CRD will be incorporated directly 
into UL 1741, likely before the end of 2022. In addition to general export limiting capability, 
PCS may control export for various commands and functions defined in IEEE 1547, as 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 118 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  explained in full be low. These include the limit maximum active power command (IEEE 
1547 subclause 4.6.2) or the voltage -active power function (IEEE 1547 subclause 5.4). IEEE 
1547.1 type test 5.13 (Limit Active Power) notes that PCS tested to the UL 1741 Power Control 
Systems test procedure may be utilized, and the time to reach steady state should be 
recorded. IEEE 1547.1 type tests 5.14.9 (test for voltage -active power (volt -watt) mode) and 
5.14.10 (test for voltage -active power (volt -watt) mode with an imbalanced grid) could also 
be used with PCS equipment to determine it can provide the voltage -active power 
response. 
Where such controls are used, the manufacturer should document the device’s 
capabilities, technical requirement documents should convey related requirements, a nd 
customers should identify the devices in the interconnection application. 
 
1. Recommendations  
1. To ensure PCS controls are appropriately addressed, any performance capability 
should align with or reference UL 1741 ( e.g., as is done in Chapter III.E.2  with new 
section 4.10.4.3.1). Since the PCS testing requirements are yet to be published in UL 1741, requirements should note that in the interim period, listing and certification can 
be fulfilled per the UL CRD for PCS.  
2. To ensure that the interconnection procedures require certified equipment, they 
should require PCS to be certified. SGIP requires certification of the interconnecting 
devices, which likely includes PCS. However, some states’ interconnection 
procedures instea d require inverter certification (such as in a Simplified process); 
those rules should be updated to be inclusive of PCS or any interconnection 
equipment.  
3. To ease the evaluation of PCS during interconnection, manufacturers should list the following in equipment documentation (note that the interconnection process cannot ensure that this is implemented by manufacturers, other than creating a market driver to provide this information): 
• Supported exporting and importing modes (unrestricted, ex port only, import 
only, no exchange, export limiting from all sources, export limiting from ESS, import limiting to ESS)  
• Support for export control of the limit maximum active power command 
• Support for export control of the voltage -active power (volt -watt)  command  
4. Revise the interconnection application form to ask whether or not a Power Control System is included in the DER system design. If so, require identification of such on 
the submitted one -line diagram, as follows: 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 119 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Does the DER include a Power Control System? [yes / no] (If yes, indicate 
the Power Control System equipment and connections on the one -line 
diagram)  
What is the PCS maximum open loop response time? _____  
What is the PCS average open loop response time? _____   
When grid- connected, will the PCS employ any of the following? [Select all 
that apply]  
 Unrestricted mode  
 Export only mode  
 Import only mode  
 No exchange mode  
 Export limiting from all sources  
 Export limiting from ESS  
 Import limiting to ESS  
 
C. IEEE 1547  
This section examines the IEEE 1547 series of standards, focusing on IEEE 1547- 2018,88 the 
base standard for DER installations. Any clauses, subclauses, notes, or definitions 
mentioned in this section refer to IEEE 1547- 2018, unless otherwise noted. IEEE 1547 is 
intended to be technology neutral, so this section explains where certain ESS -specific 
applications are not obvious.  
Notably, this is not a comprehensive guide of how to adopt all of IEEE 1547. This guide 
assumes states are moving to integrate IEEE 1547-2018 into interconnection requirements. These recommendations address only certain sections of IEEE 1547- 2018 that are relevant 
to ESS; regulators should consider other modifications to their interconnection procedures and technical requirements necessary to implement the sections of IEEE 1547 -2018 not 
addressed here. Once published, the revised IEEE 1547.2 and IEEE 1547.9 will serve as 
excellent resources for additional information related to all the IEEE 1547 topics.  
The sub-section headings below referen ce the applicable sections of IEEE 1547-2018.  
 
1. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.2 Reference Points of Applicability (RPA) 
IEEE 1547 defines Reference Point of Applicability (RPA) so that it is clear at what physical 
location the requirements of the standard need to be met for testing, evaluation, and 
 
88 As amended by IEEE 1547a -2020.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 120 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  commissioning. The RPA location can be at the Point of Common Coupling (PCC),89 Point 
of DER Connection (PoC), a point between PCC and PoC, or there could be multiple RPAs 
for different DER units.90 If the PoC is the designated RPA location, then the utility 
evaluation can rely on equipment certification for most DER assessment purposes. However, if the RPA is at the PCC, certified equipment may not address the entire 
evaluation and a more detailed a ssessment may be required for system analysis and/or 
commissioning tests. ESS may incorporate equipment (such as PCS) that limits export 
below 500 kVA, allowing the PoC to be the designated RPA. Therefore, evaluation and commissioning can potentially be st reamlined. 
It is crucial that the utility and developer agree on the location of the RPA as early as possible to determine the DER system design, equipment, and certification needs. As further described below, the project team recommends that a question be  added to the 
interconnection application allowing the customer to designate a preferred RPA, and that the utility’s engineering staff evaluate the RPA as part of the interconnection review. If the 
utility determines that the customer’s preferred RPA is in appropriate, because it is not in 
conformance with IEEE 1547 -2018 subclause 4.2, the customer can select a different RPA. 
Today, one -line diagrams are not necessarily required for all system sizes or levels of 
review, but will be necessary for the utility to review the RPA location.  
The project team recommends reviewing the RPA early in the interconnection process to 
ensure that the RPA designation does not cause delays later during the study process or commissioning tests.  
The RPA could be reviewed within  the Initial Review timeline along with the screens. The 
screens themselves are not impacted by the selection of the RPA and could be completed before or after correction of the RPA. For process efficiency, it is recommended that the 
screening process be completed concurrently with any necessary RPA corrections being made. Regardless of whether or not the screens are all passed, the Interconnection Customer should have the opportunity to correct the RPA designation within a reasonable timeline ( e.g., five days) unless they withdraw the Interconnection Request. The utility 
should have an additional reasonable time ( e.g., five days) to review the corrected RPA 
and continue processing the Interconnection Request. The RPA review and correction process is intende d to avoid adding additional process days for reviewing the 
 
89 As noted in Chapter IV , PCC is referred to as “Point of Interconnection” in many interconnection procedures, and 
throughout this Toolkit.  
90 See IEEE 1547-2018, IEEE Standard for Interconnection and Interoperability of Distributed Energy Resources with 
Associated Electrical Power Interfaces, clause 4.2(a) -(b), p. 28 (February 2018) (IEEE 1547 -2018) (where zero sequence 
continuity is maintained between PCC and PoC, IEEE 1547 -2018 allows the RPA to be set a point other than the PCC if 
“a) DER is less than 500 kVA or b) Annual average load d emand of greater than 10% of the aggregate DER Nameplate 
Rating, and where the Local EPS is not capable of, or is prevented from, exporting more than 500 kVA for longer than 
30 s” (footnote omitted) (emphasis in original). Additionally, there can be a diff erent RPA than the PoC for faults, open -
phase, and voltage if zero -sequence continuity is not maintained. RPA location can be agreed upon based on mutual 
agreement.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 121 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Interconnection Request ( e.g., both can be done within 15 days), without impacting later-
queued projects.  
For the full study process (feasibility study or system impact study), the RPA can be 
reviewed as part of the scoping meeting and any corrections would be made before it is designated for the study agreement. 
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure the RPA is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any stated selection criteria or commissionin g tests should align with or reference IEEE 
1547-2018.  
2. Revise the interconnection process to require one -line diagrams for all applications, 
regardless of size or level of review. 
3. Revise the interconnection application form to ensure the customer designates the 
RPA as follows:  
Where is the desired RPA location? [Check one]  
 PoC 
 PCC  
 Another point between PoC and PCC (must be denoted in the one -line 
diagram)  
 Different RPAs for different DER units (must be denoted in the one- line 
diagram)  
Is the RPA lo cation the same as above for detection of abnormal voltage, 
faults and open -phase conditions?  
 Yes 
 No (detection location must be denoted in the one -line diagram)  
Why does this DER fit the chosen RPA? [Check all that apply]  
 Zero -sequence continuity between PCC and PoC is maintained 
 The DER aggregate Nameplate Rating is less than 500 kVA  
 Annual average load demand is greater than 10% of the aggregate DER
 Nameplate Rating, and it is not capable of, or is prevented from, 
exporting more than 500 kVA for longer than 30 seconds  
4. Provide for review of the RPA in the interconnection process with a new step in 2.2 (based on SGIP) as follows:  
 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating U pdated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 122 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2.2 Reference Point of Applicability Review  
The following process will occur concurrently with the Initial Review 
process in section 2.3. Within five Business Days after the Distribution Provider
91 notifies the Interconnection Customer that the Interconnection 
Request is complete, the Distribution Provider shall review the Reference 
Point of Applicability denoted by t he Interconnection Customer and 
determine if it is appropriate.  
 
2.2.1 If it is determined that the Reference Point of Applicability is 
appropriate the Distribution Provider will notify the Interconnection Customer when it provides Initial Review results and proceed according to sections 2.3.2 to 2.3.4 below.  
 
2.2.2 If the Distribution Provider determines the Reference Point of 
Applicability is inappropriate, the Distribution Provider will notify the 
Interconnection Customer in writing, including an expla nation as to 
why it requires correction. The Interconnection Customer shall resubmit the Interconnection Request with the corrected Reference Point of Applicability within five Business Days. During this time the Distribution Provider will proceed with Initial Review in 2.3. The Distribution Provider shall review the revised Interconnection Request within five Business Days to determine if the revised Reference Point of Applicability has been appropriately denoted. If correct, the Distribution Provider will proceed according to sections 
2.3.2 to 2.3.4. If the Interconnection Customer does not provide the 
appropriate Reference Point of Applicability or a request for an extension of time within the deadline, the Interconnection Request will be deemed withdrawn . 
 [Note: Initial Review is renumbered to 2.3]
 
5. Revise the scoping meeting (SGIP 3.2.2) to include review of the RPA as follows: 
The purpose of the scoping meeting is to discuss the Interconnection Request , the Reference Point of Applicability,  and review existing studies 
relevant to the Interconnection Request. 
6. Revise the feasibility study agreement (Attachment A to Attachment 6 of SGIP, shown below) and system impact study agreement (Attachment A to Attachment 7 of SGIP) to add t he following third assumption: 
 
91 SGIP includes the term “Transmission Provider” in place of “Distribution Provider” in its model interconnection 
procedure language because it was adopted as a pro forma for transmission providers under FERC jurisdiction. 
However, states typically change i t to “Distribution Provider” or another term when applicable.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 123 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The feasibility study will be based upon the information set forth in the 
Interconnection Request and agreed upon in the scoping meeting held on _____________________: 1) Designation of Point of Interconnection and configurat ion to be studied. 2) Designation of alternative Points of 
Interconnection and configuration. 
3) Designation of the Reference Point of Applicability location, including 
the location for the detection of abnormal voltage, faults and open -phase 
conditions.  
1) and through 23) are to be completed by the Interconnection Customer. 
Other assumptions (listed below) are to be provided by the Interconnection 
Customer and the Distribution Provider. 
 
2. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.5 Cease to Energize Performance Requirement  
IEEE 1547 defines Cease to Energize as the cessation of active power delivery and 
limitation of reactive power exchange. The requirements stated in clause 4.5 apply to ESS 
with no limitations; however, notably, and as captured in Note 4 of the definition, charg ing 
the ESS during Cease to Energize is allowed.92  
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure energy storage is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any definition of Cease to Energize should be aligned with IEEE 1547-2018. Additionally, any stated Cease to Energize performance requirement should align with or reference IEEE 1547-2018.  
 
3. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.6.2 Capability to Limit Active Power  
IEEE 1547 defines the capability of a DER to limit its active power output as a percentage of the nameplate active power rating. Subclause 4.6.2 allows for the power control to be implemented as an export control for the entire DER system, rather than at the DER unit terminals. Within a DER system, it is important to identify which devices (or DER comp onents) are intended to be used for power limiting functionalities and their 
certifications. 
Given that power limiting equipment can be integrated with several components of the 
DER (including the ESS), denoting such capabilities during the interconnection  application 
would help with streamlining inverter-based DER interconnection. 
 
92 IEEE 1547-2018, p. 22 (the definition of cease to energize includes: “NOTE 4—Energy storage systems are allowed to 
continue charging but are allowed to cease from actively charging when the ma ximum state of charge (maximum 
stored energy) has been achieved.”). 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 124 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure export control for the Limit Maximum Active Power function is 
appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any stated performance requirement should align with or reference IEEE 1547- 2018.  
2. Revise the interconnection application form to describe how the Limit Maximum Active Power function is accomplished, as shown below: 
Does the DER utilize export limiting for the Limit Maximum Active Power function? (Yes/No)  
Which equipment(s) achieves this functionality?  
Is the equipment certified for export limiting (PCS, or “plant controller” via 
1547.1 test 5.13) ? 
 
4. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.6.3 Execution of Mode or Parameter Changes  
IEEE 1547 -2018 establishes the time requirement for DER transition between modes as no 
greater than 30 seconds, and requires the DER output to transition smoothly over a period 
between 5 seconds to 300 seconds. IEEE 1547 does not explicitly identify which “modes” this applies to, but one can infer that it includes only modes activated via the local DER communications interface, as described in clause 10. Such requirements can be met by ESS. In contrast, ESS can be used in intentional Local Electric Power System (EPS) island
93 
(“microgrid”) applications. When operating as an intentional Local EPS island there may be a desire to switch between modes at a much faster rate —all of which may need to be 
considered for control settings.
94  
When operating an intentio nal Local EPS Island, the DER does not need to respond to 
external commands received by the local DER communications interface. This is intimated in subclause 8.2
95 but it is understood generally that Local EPS islands do not interact with 
the Area EPS unt il they reconnect. 
 
93 IEEE 1547-2018 includes a definition of Local EPS. IEEE 1547 -2018, p. 24. IEEE 1547 -2018 includes a description of an 
intentional Local EPS island in subclause 8.2. IEEE 1547 -2018, p. 65  (definition provided in  footnote 95 below).  
94 As an example, for an ESS that is export limited and in grid -connected mode, when/if the ESS DER transitions from 
grid-connected mode to islanded mode, then for as long as the unit stays in the islanded mode, it is not subject to 
export limitation. In the island mode, there could also be a desire to switch from discharging to charging mode (using 
available onsite generation) at a much faster rate than the requirements set forth in 1547.  
95 “An intentional island that is totally within the bounds of a Local EPS is an intentional Local EPS island . DERs that 
support intentional Local EPS islands, while interconnected to an Area EPS that is not islanded, shall be subject to all 
requirements for inte rconnection of DER to Area EPS specified in c lause 4 through 8.1 of this standard.” IEEE 1547 -
2018, subclause 8.2.1, p. 65. Clause 10 interoperability capability requirements are not mentioned, but would also be 
required when interconnected to an Area EPS that is not islanded. The corollary to the statement, that is not spelled 
out in IEEE 1547, is that while not paralleled to an Area EPS, the requirements of c lause 4 through 8.1 and clause 10 do 
not apply.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Upd ated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 125 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  All control modes and settings associated with grid-connected mode should be specified 
in the interconnection application for coordination purposes with the utility.  
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure DERs are appropriately addressed by techni cal requirements, any stated 
execution of mode or parameter change performance requirements should align with or reference IEEE 1547-2018.  
2. If technical requirements specify the execution of mode or parameter changes, include a note stating that those requirements do not apply during islanded operation.  
3. If technical requirements exist which require control capabilities, include a note stating that those controls do not apply during islanded operation.  
4. Revise the interconnection application form to include la nguage to help the utility 
understand if the project plans islanded operation, as shown below:  
In addition to grid-connected mode, will the DER operate as an intentional local EPS island (also known as “microgrid” or “standby mode”)?  
 
5. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.7 Prioritization of DER Responses  
ESS can operate in multiple modes, transition from one mode to another, set active power, provide other grid services, and/or possibly reserve a portion of its stored energy for onsite customer use. Employing e xport/import limiting can impede IEEE 1547-required 
functionality by limiting power. Note that the limit may affect either active (kW) or apparent (kVA) power, and this should be defined such that the utility’s evaluation can reflect the method used. Not a ll ESS functions or use cases are related to the IEEE 1547 prioritization 
list, but it may still be important to understand their prioritization in comparison to other 
functions or use cases.  
Energy storage use cases such as self -consumption, backup power, and peak shaving are 
not addressed by IEEE 1547. These use cases can typically be supported while maintaining 
export or import limits at the PCC in compliance with the interconnection requirements. Any interactions between use cases and export or import limits or other functions should be understood during the interconnection evaluation.  
With such a wide menu of possible ESS operating modes, supported modes can be prioritized and documented in the interconnection agreement to meet contractual obligations. Rather than addressing prioritization in the interconnection agreement, 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 126 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  technical requirements could standardize the prioritization for all ESS DERs.96 While IEEE 
P1547.2 discusses this issue, further standards development is likely necessary to inform 
such prioritization, or it would need to be developed at the jurisdictional level. EPRI’s Energy Storage Functions Taxonomy Working Group may develop related direction on prioritization in relation to energy storage use cases.
97  
a. Recommendations  
1. Revise t he interconnection application form to include the following: 
When grid- connected, does the DER employ any of the following? [Select all 
that apply]  
 Scheduled Operation  
 Export limiting or control  
  Does the export limiting method limit on the basis of kVA o r kW?  
 Import limiting or control 
  Does the import limiting method limit on the basis of kVA or kW?  
 Active or reactive power functions not specified in IEEE 1547 (such as 
the Set Active Power function)  
2. The final agreed upon prioritization of control modes and functions should be 
documented in the signed interconnection agreement.  
3. Since interconnection applicants will be required to provide information per the 
recommendations above, manufacturers should list the below provisions in 
equipment documentat ion (note that the interconnection process cannot ensure 
that this is implemented by manufacturers, other than creating a market driver to provide this information): 
• Supported exporting and importing modes (for example, unrestricted, 
export only, import only, no exchange, export limiting from all sources, 
export limiting from ESS, import limiting to ESS); 
• Supported active or reactive power functions not specified in IEEE 1547 
(such as the Set Active Power function);  
 
96 Note that some functions like export/import limi ting could impede bulk system support, and distribution system 
operators may not prioritize bulk grid support. Regulators may wish to ensure prioritization correctly accounts for bulk 
grid support.  
97 Electric Power Research Institute, Energy Storage Functi ons Taxonomy Working Group, (June 3, 2021), 
https://www.epri.com/research/programs/067418/events/93B041AC -D90B -4F0E -B9D5 -8EDA6439A33F . 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 127 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  • Description of interaction betw een above modes and compatible use 
cases ( e.g., self -consumption, backup power, peak shaving, etc.), if any; 
and 
• Priority orders (or capability to change priority) for the different modes 
and functions. Specifically, prioritization with export - or import -limiting 
equipment.  
 
6. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.10.3 Performance During Enter Service 
There are capabilities required by IEEE 1547 subclause 4.10.3 (a) -(c) during enter service 
that may not be suitable or preferred for ESS during enter service.98 First, like any o ther 
DER, an ESS could enter service following the requirement listed in subclause (a) -(c). 
Second, because of the present status of the unit, it could be desirable for the ESS to enter service in the idle mode (do nothing mode) or as a load (charging mode ).  
However, if the ESS is charging from the grid during enter service, then the utility may be concerned about picking up the full ESS load at full rate ( i.e., 100% charge rate from grid). 
IEEE 1547 -2018 enter service requirements also apply to charging ( negative active power).  
a. Recommendation  
1. To ensure energy storage is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any enter service performance requirement should align with or reference IEEE 1547-2018. For clarity, add an additional note to any ent er service technical 
requirements which specifies that ESS entering service in charging mode needs to comply with IEEE 1547 4.10.3.  
 
7. IEEE 1547 -2018 4.13 Exemptions for Emergency Systems and 
Standby DER  
Where an Authority Having Jurisdiction requires ba ckup power for emergency or standby 
purposes, IEEE 1547 offers operational exemptions in clause 4.13.99 It is important to 
identify which devices (or DER components) are intended to be used for emergency or standby purposes when power from the grid is not available (particularly for backup to 
critical facilities such as hospitals or fire stations). 
 
98 IEEE 1547-2018, p.33 (subclause 4.10.3 requires the DER be capable of: (a) preventing enter service when disabled, 
(b) delaying enter service by an intentional adjustable period, and (c) managing the exchange of active power).  
99 IEEE 1547-2018, p. 35 (subclause 4.13 .1 (for emergency systems) and 4.13.2 (for standby DER) exempt DER from: 
voltage/frequency disturbance ride -through (6.4.2, 6.5.2), interoperability, information exchange, information models 
(10), and intentional islanding (8.2) specified in the standard).  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updat ed Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 128 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  ESS is a likely candidate for critical facilities offering backup services or possibly as a 
standby energy source. Denoting such arrangements during the intercon nection 
application would help with streamlining evaluations for emergency DERs, which need not meet the specified IEEE 1547 requirements.  
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure energy storage is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, 
any performance req uirements related to IEEE 1547 -2018 clauses 6.4.2, 6.5.2, 8.2, 
and 10 should align with or reference IEEE 1547-2018 subclause 4.13. 
2. Revise the interconnection application form to include language such as below:  
Is the DER, or part of the DER, designated as emergency, legally required, 
or critical facility backup power? [yes / no]  
(If yes, denote the emergency generators and applicable portions of the DER in the submitted one -line diagram)  
 
8. IEEE 1547 -2018 5.4.2 Voltage -Active Power Mode  
The voltage -active power function (also known as volt -watt), which regulates voltages with 
respect to active power, is by default disabled in IEEE 1547. The ranges of allowable settings allow for ESS to charge at high voltage wh en activated. If this is used as a grid 
service, see section 11 on Grid Services below.  
The voltage -active power function may be implemented several different ways in 
compliance with IEEE 1547. For systems with multiple DER units, the functional curve may be applied with the same settings on each unit, with different settings for each unit, or it may be managed by a plant controller. Additionally, as provided by IEEE 1547-2018 footnote 65, the voltage -active power function may be implemented as an export control. 
Within a DER system, it is important to identify how the voltage -active power function 
applies to each device or DER component if activated. It is also important to understand the certified capability of the equipment to manage the function.  
Denoti ng such capabilities within the interconnection application will help streamline the 
evaluation of all DERs.  
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure all possible configurations are appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any voltage -active power performance requirement should align with 
or reference IEEE 1547 -2018, including footnote 65.  
2. Revise the interconnection application form to discuss voltage -active power 
functions, as shown below: 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 129 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  How is the voltage -active power function implemented? [Check one]  
 All DER units follow the same functional settings (same per-unit curve 
regardless of individual unit Nameplate Rating)  
 Different DER units follow different functional settings (different per -unit 
curves for individual unit Nameplate Ratings)  
  Denote in one -line diagram the voltage -active power settings of 
each DER unit  
 A plant controller or other supplemental DER device manages output of the entire system (one per -unit curve based on total system Nameplate 
Rating)  
  If selected, is the managing device certified for the voltage -active 
power function? [yes / no]  
 Export limit is utilized (power control system manages export based on total system Nameplate Rating)  
  If selected, is the managing device certified for the voltage -active 
power function? [yes / no]  
 
9. IEEE 1547 -2018 8.2 Intentional Islanding  
ESS may be p art of an intentional island or “microgrid,” and the DER will need to follow 
IEEE 1547 requirements for the transition to the island and reconnection to the utility. Note that the execution of mode or parameter changes and control capability requirements a re 
addressed in Chapter VIII.C.4.a  regarding clause 4.6.3 above. 
a. Recommendation  
1. To ensure intentional islands are appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any island transition or reconnection performance requirement should align with or reference IEEE 1547- 2018.  
 
10. IEEE 1547 -2018 10 Interoperability, Information Exchange, 
Information Models, and Protocols  
Clause 10 covers the interoperability requirement of DERs, which allows distribution system operat ors to monitor and maintain the interconnected assets. IEEE 1547 lists the 
capabilities required for DER systems, but does not determine whether or not the system must communicate with an external entity. Technical requirements should specify whether or not interoperability (often referred to as monitoring, SCADA, or telemetry) is required and what equipment, ports, or protocols should be supported. Some existing parameters 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 130 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  in IEEE 1547 apply only to energy storage DER. To support ESS, technical requirement s 
should require interoperability for: 
• Active power charge maximum rating  
• Apparent power charge maximum rating  
• Operational state of charge  
ESS may also require additional parameters. For example, to support ESS charging, and/or 
transitions from charging to  discharging, system operators may need to monitor IEEE 1547 
parameters while charging. System operators may need to use parameters like power factor setpoint and operational state while in charging mode, which are not captured in clause 10.  
ESS may also utilize nameplate, monitoring, or management parameters and setpoints 
not mentioned in IEEE 1547. This could include scheduling or other functions/features related to ESS interoperability. If such setpoints are available, then interoperability may 
need to complement such information exchange.  
a. Recommendations  
1. To ensure interoperability of ESS is appropriately addressed by technical requirements, any interoperability requirements should align with, or reference IEEE 1547-2018.  
2. Where an ESS ut ilizes additional parameters beyond those mentioned in IEEE 1547, 
manufacturers are encouraged to make those setpoints interoperable. 
3. If IEEE 1547 parameters and setpoints, such as the power factor setpoint and 
operational state, are needed for ESS in charging mode, they should be specified 
as applicable to the charging mode in technical requirements.  
 
11. Grid Services  
To provide some  grid services, ESS may need to provide functionality disallowed by or 
unaccounted for by IEEE 1547-2018. For example, during enter service, an ESS that is the first energy source to restore service via black start may be offering services to the grid, but would not be able to conform with the Enter Service requirements of subclause 4.10.3 
or other portions of IEEE 1547. Voltage regulation (reactive power functions or voltage -
active power) or ride -through capability could be offered beyond the requirements of IEEE 
1547 and while in charging mode, which is not covered by the standard. If specific grid services are allowed, related technical requirements may note all exceptions to IEEE 1547 -
2018 in a technical requirements document, or a grid services contract . Requirements may 
not be the same for all systems, and it may not be clear today what the best treatment is for all systems. Therefore, it may be done on a case -by-case basis via the contract. 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated  Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 131 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnecti on of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  a. Recommendations  
● The grid services contract should document  any alternative technical requirements. 
Alternatively, standardize those requirements through a published technical 
requirements document.  
● Add an interconnection application form question to flag whether or not grid 
services are being utilized.
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 132 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  D. Effective Grounding  
Power system effective grounding manages temporary overvoltage during ground faults. 
With DERs, an overvoltage risk can be created by backfeeding a ground fault when a 
portion of the system is unintentionally islanded. For certain DERs (such as rotating machines) and interconnection transformer configurations, supplemental grounding is 
often required to prevent damaging ground fault overvoltage when islanded.  
Since inverters act quite differently from rotating machines during ground faults, they 
generally have less of a need for supplemental grounding. Engineers may be designing 
unneeded supplemental grounding into inverter-based DER systems by applying concepts 
based on rotating machines. Not only can this result in extra costs to the DER system, but 
exces s grounding can also have a negative impact on distribution system protection, and 
should be avoided. Utility practices for effective grounding are now evolving to address inverters appropriately. However, those practices are not yet widespread; therefore regulators should ensure that interconnection procedures properly evaluate the risk for ground faults from inverter-based machines.  
The IEEE C62.92.6, Guide for Application of Neutral Grounding in Electrical Utility Systems, 
Part VI - Systems Supplied by Current -Regulated Sources was published in 2018 to 
address system grounding with inverters. Part VI of the long -standing recommended 
practices of the IEEE C62.92 series for power system grounding gives guidance that can be used by utility engineers for inverter -based resources. The guide clarifies important 
differences between rotating machines and inverter-based DERs. Interconnection rules should reference it, as it includes topics that are not widely known by many engineers who are not intimately familiar with power electronics. 
Acknowledging the important differences of inverter-based DERs is the first step to avoid misapplication of the typical grounding concepts and practices used for rotating machines. IEEE C62.92 (including parts I through V) is the a ccepted power system grounding 
standard for all resources, including central power plants, transmission, and distribution systems. Part VI contrasts the straightforward characterization of rotating machines with the less well-defined inverter responses. To pics covered in IEEE C62.92.6 include 
essential areas such as symmetrical component characteristics, ground-fault overvoltage 
calculations, effective grounding, and the effectiveness or adverse impacts of 
supplemental ground sources. 
Implementing the perfo rmance requirements of IEEE 1547 -2018 is another critical step in 
managing overvoltage with DERs. The standard provides definitive overvoltage 
performance limits to expect when interconnecting a certified DER. As one of several power quality requirements, subclause 7.4 limits any overvoltage, including due to ground faults or load rejection.  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Interconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 133 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IEEE 1547.1- 2020 subclauses 5.17 and 5.18 provide testing and certification requirements 
related to the overvoltage limits, which allow inverter manufacturers to provide data that 
complement the usage of IEEE C62.92.6. IEEE P1547.2 provides guidance on how  to 
ground inverter-based DERs, and should be referenced during related grounding evaluations.  
It is important that utilities perform grounding evaluations with a full understanding of inverters’ unique characteristics, which affect the outcomes of those evaluations. To this end, the standards discussed here should be used in interconnection rules’ grounding requirements. Without knowledge of these standards, engineers may continue to over-specify grounding needs. 
The line configuration screen, typically f ound in Fast Track (such as SGIP 2.2.1.6) acts as a 
proxy grounding evaluation. As written in SGIP and most jurisdictions today, it does not 
take into account differences in grounding needs between rotating machines and inverter-based DERs. This can cause projects to fail the screen and/or be subject to unnecessary 
upgrades. EPRI has researched and written about how to update screening and 
interconnection practices with regard to inverters, including guidelines for determining supplemental grounding needs.
100 
The recommendations below are couched within the constraints of how screening (including Supplemental Review) is done today. They modernize the existing screening process for effective grounding, without attempting to completely change the screening proc ess. However, interconnection practices may need to evolve more dramatically to use 
modern analytical tools to streamline processing of all types of DERs for all relevant distribution system concerns (not just effective grounding).  
Screening for grounding  would ideally be incorporated in the Initial Review from a process 
efficiency standpoint. However, the data and tools needed to evaluate effective grounding may require more extensive resources (time and expertise) than would typically be 
available within  the Initial Review process. Thus, it may be more feasible to incorporate 
such screening within Supplemental Review, as noted in recommendation 5 below. 
Whether such screens are incorporated within Initial Review or Supplemental Review should be determined  through discussions with utilities and stakeholders. 
Note that for intentional islands, grounding requirements will vary from those that apply in 
grid-connected mode.  
 
 
100 Electric Power Research Institute, Effective Grounding and Inverter -based Generation: A “New” Look at an “Old” 
Subject  (Sept. 19, 2019), https://www.epri.com/research/products/ 000000003002015945 .  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated In terconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 134 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  1. Recommendations  
1. To ensure inverter-based resources are appropriately addressed by te chnical 
requirements, any effective grounding requirements for inverter-based resources 
should align with or reference IEEE C62.92.6, IEEE 1547.2 (once published), and IEEE 1547 -2018 subclause 7.4.  
2. If there are references to grounding reviews in the description of the interconnection studies ( e.g., system impact and feasibly studies), then 
interconnection procedures should require the use of IEEE C62.92.6, IEEE 1547.2 (once published), and the test data from IEEE 1547.1 -2020 for the review of inverter -
based resources. If references to grounding reviews appear in agreements related 
to the studies (such as Attachments 6 and 7 of SGIP), they should also align with or 
reference IEEE C62.92.6, IEEE 1547.2 (once published), and IEEE 1547- 2018 
subclause 7.4. 
As an example, in SGIP attachment 6 (section 6.3), the following language can be 
added: 
Review of grounding requirements shall include review per IEEE C62.92.6 
and IEEE 1547.2 for inverter-based DER when additional grounding 
equipment is considered. 
3. If the utili ty requires supplemental grounding, relevant guidance should be 
provided in the technical requirements document or interconnection handbook. 
4. Revise the line configuration screen (SGIP 2.2.1.6) by updating the table as follows.  
Primary 
Distribution  
Line Type  Type of Interconnection to  
Primary Distribution Line  Result/Criteria  
Three -phase, 
three -wire 3-phase or single phase,  
phase -to-phase  If ungrounded on 
primary or any type on secondary  Pass screen  
Three -phase, four -
wire Effectively -grounded 3  
phase or Single -phase, line - 
to-neutral  Single -phase line- to-neutral  Pass screen  
Three -phase, four -
wire (for any line 
that has sections 
or mixed three -
wire and four -wire)  All others  Pass screen for inverter -based generation if 
aggregate generation rating is ≤ 100% feeder* 
minimum load, or ≤ 30% feeder* peak load (if 
minimum load data isn’t available)  
 
Pass screen for rotating generation if 
aggregate generation rating ≤ 33% of feeder* 
minimum load, or ≤ 10% of feeder* peak load 
(if minimum load data isn’t available)  
 
(*or line section)  
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Int erconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 135 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
5. One of the following three recommendations should be utilized to properly account 
for effective grounding within Fast Track review. The approach used will vary depending on the ability to integrate necessary tools and available resources. The recommendations are organized in order of increasing complexity.  
A. Include a new Suppleme ntal Review screen for three -phase inverters as 
follows. If it is feasible to evaluate this screen during Initial Review, it may be used in lieu of the line configuration screen to evaluate three -phase 
inverters.  
The Line -to-Neutral connected load on the f eeder or line -section is greater 
than 33% of peak load on the feeder or line -section.  
B. Alternatively, use a tool, such as the Inverter-Based Supplemental Grounding Tool created by EPRI, to determine if supplemental grounding is required to maintain effecti ve grounding. If supplemental grounding is not needed, then 
the system would pass the screen. If supplemental grounding is required, then provide for the option to modify the DER system to include the necessary grounding equipment, without proceeding to fu ll study before the 
interconnection agreement is provided. 
C. Additionally, a detailed h osting capacity analysis that incorporates 
evaluation of temporary overvoltage risk for inverters may be used in lieu of 
the screen mentioned in recommendation 4. If the a ggregate DER rating is 
below the HCA limit, then this screen would be passed.  
 
E. Interconnection Procedures and Technical Requirements Should 
Reference Recent Standards  
Interconnection procedures often include references to codes and standards. To ensure 
the efficient interconnection of ESS, regulators should update interconnection procedures 
and technical requirements to include references to the most recent version of the standards discussed above. SGIP lists codes and standards in Attachment 3, w hile other 
procedures include references in other places. 
1. Recommendation  
Interconnection procedures should use the most recent versions of the standards discussed in this section. Updates to the procedures should account for timelines for adopting new or revised standards established by regulatory proceedings. SGIP Attachment 3 , like many state interconnection procedures, lists some standards including 
the revision year and some without the revision year. Listing the revision year is the best practice because it informs stakeholders when the new version of the standard applies. 
 
 
VIII. Incorporating Updated Inte rconnection Standards Into Interconnection Procedures  
 
 136 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Any dated standards should be updated to the most recent revision year and title. The 
following are references to the standards found in this section: 
IEEE 1547 -2018  IEEE Standard for Interconnecting Interconnection and 
Interoperability of  Distributed Energy  Resources with Associated Electric 
Power Systems Interfaces, as amended by IEEE 1547a- 2020   
(Including use of IEEE 1547.1 -2020  testing protocols to establish conformity)  
UL 1741 , Edition 3 September 28, 2021  Inverters, Converters, and 
Controllers and Interconnection System Equipment  for Use In Independent 
Power Systems With Distributed Energy Resources 
IEEE C62.92.6 -2017 IEEE Guide for Application of Neutral Grounding in 
Electrical Utility Systems, Part VI - Systems Supplied by Current -Regulated 
Sourc es  
 IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the
      Evaluation of Operating Schedules
IX
. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules
 137 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IX. D efining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operatin g
S
chedules
A.Introduction and Problem Statement
Defining and verifying export controls is a critical foundation for energy storage, but it is 
not all that is needed to enable customers and the grid to capture arguably the greatest benefit of ESS: its schedulable and dispatchable nature. Many electric system impacts have a temporal aspect to them due to both daily and seasonal changes in the load curve and the prevalence of generating resources ( e.g., solar or wind) that operate during certain 
times of the day or have seasonal output variations. Energy storage is unique among inverter-based resources in its ability to provide or consume energy at any time.  
ESS may be designed to  operate on a schedule or to respond to dynamic signals for a 
variety of reasons ( e.g., customer needs, rate schedules, market participation, or to avoid 
distribution system constraints). However, today the default method for conducting an interconnection analysis is to study projects in a manner that assumes the project may 
export or import its full capacity at any time. In some cases, utilities are able to take into account that solar systems only operate during daylight hours, but there is very little nuance beyond that in terms of hourly, daily, or seasonal variations, or variations in output quantity. Unfortunately, the existing rules and methods often complicate or prevent the interconnection of storage on constrained infrastructure where ESS could be most beneficial.  
The following two terms will be used to describe the scheduled operation in this chapter: 
Operating Profile  means the manner in which the distributed energy resource is 
designed to be operated, based on the generating prime mover, Operating 
Schedule, and the managed variation in output power or charging behavior. The Operating Profile includes any limitations set on power imported or exported at the Point of Interconnection and the resource characteristics, e.g., solar output profile or ESS operation.  
Op
erating Schedule  means the time of year, time of month, and hours of the day 
designated in the Interconnectio n Application for the import or export of power.  
Analysis of a resource operating continually at full capacity— an impossible scenario for 
energy storage which must charge at some point —may lead to unnecessary and time -
consuming studies or costly upgrades, and can impair the ability of applicants to propose projects that are targeted at resolving specific system needs or providing necessary services. To realize the full value of ESS, it will be necessary to create or modify interconnection rules and processes such that time -specific operations are enabled. This 
includes the ability to interconnect on the basis of scheduled operation in locations where nonconformance to an operating schedule would have adverse impacts. Unfortunately, unlike the other barriers discussed in this Toolkit, there is a considerable amount of 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 138 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  additional research, evaluation, and analysis needed before concrete solutions can be 
recommended.  
The BATRIES team has identified three areas where critical work and resources need to be develo ped to facilitate the safe and reliable evaluation of DERs operating with fixed 
schedules: 
1. Identify methods of providing utilities with assurance that ESS can safely and reliably conform to a fixed schedule. Just as utilities need to have confidence that the export control technologies discussed in Chapter III are reliable, they 
will also need to be able to trust the scheduling functionality. 
2. Determine how utilities will screen and study projects that are utilizing reliable scheduling methods. This requires better understanding of what the current utility capabilit ies are, what the data needs are, and what new 
methods or approaches can be used to efficiently evaluate operating schedules of varying levels of complexity.  
3. Define how interconnection applicants should communicate their proposed operating schedule to the  utility with their application. This may include 
developing standardized templates for data transmission based upon the complexity of the schedule and the utility’s data needs.  
This chapter outlines these essential areas of development that are needed to  allow for 
evaluation and implementation of fixed schedule operation of ESS. It provides recommended actions regulators can take to accelerate the development of both near - 
and long -term solutions. The chapter points to further opportunities to implement dynamic 
controls, but primarily focuses on fixed schedule operation.  
 
B. Enabling Safe and Reliable Scheduling Capabilities  
When storage resources are deployed on the grid to avoid distribution system impacts at 
particular times, or to offer services at critical times, it is essential that utilities have confidence that they will operate according to the established schedules. The project team surveyed a handful of utilities in states with active ESS markets and utilities in states such as California, New Y ork, and Massachusetts all indicated that they would need adequate 
assurance that the control systems used by customers would perform as intended.
101 
 
101 See, e.g. , NY Interconnection Technical Working Group, Industry & JU, CESIR Analysis Methodology Review for 
Hybrid PV & Battery Energy Storage Systems  (Sept. 9, 2021), 
https://www3.dps.ny.gov/W/ PSCWeb.nsf/96f0fec0b45a3c6485257688006a701a/def2bf0a236b946f85257f71006ac98
e/$FILE/2021 -09-
09%20ITWG%20CESIR%20Analysis%20Methods%20Review%20for%20PV+BES%20Systems%20v1__JU%20Respons
es.docx  [dps.ny.gov] (“Granting permission for projects to operate outside  of operating limits determined by studying 
worst-case scenarios is dependent on the implementation of advanced operational technologies such as ADMS and 
DERMS. These systems and associated investments can enable greater utility visibility and control of D ER. Ensuring 
that customer control systems perform as needed is an issue that will need to be addressed as standardization and 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 139 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Trust in the operational performance of interconnected resources can be established in 
several ways. Where standards are in place, test protocols have been established, and real-world performance is well understood, acceptance of equipment covered by these  
standards follows. However, since scheduled operation of energy storage is not yet covered by standards, trust presently must be established in other ways. This section first discusses the need for standards and the likely steps necessary to get standards in place 
that enable scheduling for storage. It then examines potential alternative methods for establishing confidence in scheduled operation that could be explored while the standards development process is underway.  
 
1. Establishing Standards and Certification for Scheduling  
Capabilities  
One major task for incorporating scheduling into interconnection study processes is the 
development of standards that describe scheduling of energy storage operations, especially time -specific import and export lim itations. Standards do not yet exist today that 
establish performance requirements for operating schedules within Power Control Systems (PCS) or other technologies. As discussed in Chapter III and Appendix B , the UL 
1741 CRD establishes test standards for the export and import control capabilities of PCS. However, under the existing CRD, these limits are static and apply at all times, thus further work is needed to incorporate scheduling functio ns.  
Optimally, the following steps would need to be taken to establish standards to support scheduled operation of ESS and other DERs.  
UL 1741, the primary standard for the certification of inverter functionality, would need updating. The UL 1741 Standards Technical Panel has discussed the need for UL 1741 to address scheduled operations and plans to begin working on incorporating PCS scheduling into the standard. The proposed modification to UL 1741 would enable recurring fixed schedules by implementing time -bound values for the export and import limits or 
operating modes. This process could potentially be completed by mid-to -late-2022, but 
the development process is open -ended.  
A task group has been formed to introduce scheduling into the UL CRD for PCS . The task 
group has developed a draft scope of scheduling requirements and will work to create test language to evaluate those concepts. This language could be incorporated into the existing proposal for inclusion of PCS tests in UL 1741. The Standards Te chnical Panel for 
UL 1741 will eventually vote on whether or how to incorporate this language directly in the UL 1741 standard. The process of testing products for scheduling functionality can be accelerated if UL first updates the CRD for scheduling prior to full incorporation into the 
standard.  
 
deployed system configurations reinforce engineering designs and produce expected outcomes, especially with 
respect to performanc e during tail events.”).  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 140 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  In addition to incorporating scheduling into UL 1741, it may be desirable to update the 
testing procedures specified by IEEE 1547.1 or other standards to validate operation in compliance with scheduling requiremen ts for non -inverter or non -PCS systems. Because 
IEEE 1547.1 is based upon the requirements of IEEE 1547, the latter would first need to be updated to include scheduling requirements. The most efficient pathway to testing non -
PCS systems is currently unclea r, so it is not certain whether IEEE 1547 would take on this 
task. Other standards could potentially be developed as necessary to support scheduling apart from IEEE 1547 and 1547.1. Additionally, since storage system configurations can vary and often canno t be lab tested as an integrated system, the creation of a validation 
procedure for field certification by a NRTL, as well as a normalized witness testing methodology for utilities, may facilitate implementation. The process for including schedule capabilities in 1547 and 1547.1 or other standards would likely take multiple years and has not yet begun.  
The standards development process may consider many aspects as part of scheduling 
DER operations beyond import and export power limits. However, at a minimu m, for the 
purposes of interconnections, the standards should address definitions of time -specific 
import and export limits and tests to verify compliance. One of the challenges to developing standards is that it may be difficult to determine exactly what the standard should be designed to cover, and in what manner, if there have been few pilot deployments or preliminary uses of schedules in the field to inform the standards development process. The following subsections describe some steps regulators can t ake 
to help facilitate greater use in the field while the standards development process is underway.  
a. Recommendations for Supporting and Accelerating Standards Development  
Overall, developing standards for scheduled ESS operations is of critical importa nce to 
enabling ESS to avoid interconnection upgrades and to provide critical grid services when they are needed. However, the standards development process is lengthy and it can take multiple years to complete under the best conditions. It also takes additional time once standards are complete for equipment to be tested and deployed in the field, for interconnection procedures to incorporate use of the new standards, and for utilities to gain comfort with evaluating the newly certified equipment. It is ver y likely that some states 
will need or desire ESS that can perform according to operating schedules on a much faster timeline than the traditional standards development process can support. For this reason, regulators may want to engage proactively in supp ort of expedited standards 
development while also supporting the exploration of other methods of providing utilities with assurance of schedule performance.  
Although regulators do not have direct control or authority over the standards development bodies or processes, regulators can create a sense of urgency and expectation. Incorporating scheduling functionality into interconnection rules, with implementation dates set based upon standard publication, can provide a powerful signal to the parties participa ting in the standards development process and can motivate market 
participants to actively engage to ensure the standards are being developed properly. 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 141 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Regulators can also allow the use of equipment that conforms to proposed or draft 
standards such as has been done by states in the case of the UL CRD for PCS.  
Finally, regulators can support the development of standards by convening working groups to discuss the use of DER schedules and the associated interconnection rules and requirements. These working group processes can be used to better define the specific schedule needs and capabilities which can help ensure that the standards development discussions are supported by information about the real market and regulatory needs. Conducting these working group  proceedings concurrently with the standards 
development process can also enable regulators to put into place interconnection rules that can take full advantage of schedule capabilities once the standards are approved. These working groups will want to bot h consider the requirements for new projects being 
proposed with an operating schedule and also any transition issues associated with existing projects shifting toward scheduled operations. Eliminating the lag time between standards completion and the inco rporation of those standards into interconnection rules 
is one process that regulators have direct control over.  
 
2. Alternate Approaches for Safe and Reliable Utilization of 
Operating Schedules  
In light of the potentially long road ahead for the developm ent of standards that govern 
scheduling performance in the interconnection process, regulators will likely want to 
consider other methods for providing utilities with adequate assurance of ESS scheduling capabilities. The BATRIES project team has identifie d several different approaches that 
could be explored for enabling safe and reliable use of schedules absent standards. The following subsections discuss the concepts and their potential pros and cons. It is recommended that regulators evaluate these options more thoroughly to identify those that might be most practical to deploy to meet scheduling needs in particular circumstances.  
a. Field Testing  
Another way to expedite implementation is the parallel development of a field test program to validate performance of a deployed system to a fixed operating schedule or profile. 
Since storage system configurations can vary and often cannot be lab tested as an integrated system, creation of field test procedures and the establishment of entities to conduct them would enable a wider variety of systems to be validated. The regulator could either actively develop such a test procedure or simply encourage said development. This pathway could potentially be leveraged for field certification by a NRTL. How ever, due to 
the cost and complexity of field testing every deployed system, this option would likely only be potentially practical for large systems. This would also still require the development of detailed test specifications.  
Additionally, harmonized commissioning testing methodologies for utilities may facilitate implementation. Depending on the level or type of testing available for a given ESS system, more or fewer commissioning steps are needed to validate the installation. These 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 142 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  procedures are ofte n determined by utility engineers in consultation with the developer 
and manufacturer documentation. As no guidance yet exists on how to perform such tests 
for scheduling functions, developing typical commissioning steps could save effort at the individual utility and/or interconnection level.  
b. Regional Test Standard  
Regulators can also help to inform the standards development process, while creating a more immediate pathway for scheduled operation of ESS in their state, by developing their own interim te sting protocol that can be utilized while national standards are under 
development. This can be a resource -intensive process to undertake and requires expert 
input and preferably manufacturer engagement, but it could be valuable for one or more states with  a large market to consider development of interim test protocols. Ultimately, 
manufacturers prefer not to develop multiple bespoke products that need to be tested to different standards, but these initial efforts can help identify scheduling needs and functionalities on a faster schedule than national efforts.  
The structure of who performs the tests and who the “certifying body” is could vary. 
Manufacturers could submit in -house test data to either a utility or potentially a body 
designated by the regulat or which could review the data to ensure the equipment is in 
compliance. Otherwise, NRTLs could be employed to provide attestations as is normally done with standard test protocols. This can be a time -intensive process both to develop 
the test protocol (th ough potentially faster than a full standards process) as well as to verify 
compliance for bodies that do not normally serve that function. However, since detailed test procedures can be used, the verification is more robust and the process may be seen as more trustworthy. 
This type of process has been utilized by Hawaiian Electric to implement their “TrOV -2” 
qualification which tests for the ability of inverters to avoid damaging load rejection 
overvoltage. Manufacturers submit their data to the utility along with other certifications and attestations in order to be listed on the qualified equipment list.
102 
Early regional developments can inform national standards and test protocol development 
as parallel activities. In order to enhance this work, pilot programs to investigate and trial the verified fixed operating schedules could be conducted in regions of critical interest. Such programs can help to foster trust in these scheduled operations through demonstration of performance.  
c. Monitoring and Backup Control  
Either with or without any of the previously mentioned verification strategies, monitoring for co mpliance with a schedule can be achieved with equipment that is commonly 
available today. One way this can be done is through the application of a monitoring device that the utility has an interface to. This may be a site controller (or “gateway"), or it m ay be 
 
102 The test procedure is based on one developed by the Forum on Inverter Grid Integration Issues and tested by 
NREL before being adopted by Hawaiian Electric. It eventually served as the basis for the IEEE 1547.1 -2020 tests for 
load rejection overvoltage.  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 143 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  a utility-owned node, sometimes referred to as a remote terminal unit (RTU). Depending 
on the monitoring capabilities of the utility, the level of other verification used, or other assurances such as contractual obligations and ramifications for non -compliance, 
monitoring of compliance may be deemed sufficient to ensure schedules are adhered to. Due to the typically high cost of implementing a communication system, this pathway may only be feasible for large projects. Large projects, however, may alre ady be required to 
connect to a communications channel ( i.e., SCADA or telemetry) as a requirement of 
interconnection, in which case this may not add significant additional costs. In some instances, cheaper and/or slower communication may be sufficient for the particular use 
case of monitoring schedule compliance, making it more affordable for smaller systems. However, utilities will need the resources and capability to process all the data.  
Utilities may desire more direct control due to a lack of certain ty or potential for highly 
adverse effects due to schedule mis-operation. In this case, similar communications channels may provide for control in addition to monitoring. The RTU may be leveraged where it hierarchically sits above the site control and has the ability to override the site controller in the event that the operating schedule is not followed or if abnormal operating conditions occur. In this way, an RTU can provide assurance to a utility that ESS operations can be prevented from causing negative grid impacts.  
Some larger solar and storage projects have used and continue to use customized site controls, such as Real Time Automation Controllers (RTAC) and RTUs to gain acceptance for interconnections that might otherwise have required additional u pgrades. For example, 
the California Independent System Operator certified the SEL RTAC as a remote intelligent gateway serving this purpose in 2015.
103 These controls are typically built on utility-grade 
hardware and have to be validated by project -specific agreement with the utility. EPRI is 
conducting research and development104 on utility reference gateways for DERs that may 
help to normalize the specification and lower the cost of such devices.  
Protective relay arrangements are also often utilized to prevent negative grid impacts in the event ESS controls do not function correctly. Such relays are well known and trusted by utilities to prevent operations in excess of limits. Even though these additional layers of control and protections can add cost, tim e, and complexity to a project, they are viable 
ways of securing interconnections in critical locations. Protective relay schemes, RTUs, RTACs, and other forms of utility -recognized control can be leveraged presently through 
negotiated interconnection agre ements and provide an interim pathway while 
development of streamlined processes continues.  
d. Attestations  
Vendor attestations may be an avenue to provide utilities with some performance assurance while standards are in development. This method has been used by some 
 
103 Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories, California ISO Certifies SEL RTAC as a Remote Intelligent Gateway  (July 23, 
2015), https://selinc.com/company/news/111520/.  
104 Electri c Power Research Institute, Applications of the Local Distributed Energy Resource (DER) Gateway: Low Cost, 
Secure DER Network Gateways for Integration of Smart Inverters (June 11, 2021),  
https://www.epri.com/research/products/000000003002018673 .  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 144 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  states and utilities in the past to allow manufacturers to “self -certify” that their equipment 
meets a certain set of requirements. For instance, before certification test requirements 
were available for PCS, manufacturer attestations (generally signed by an officer of the company) were accepted by the Hawaiian Electric utilities as a means of verifying compliance to be added to the utility’s qualified equipment list. The attestations stated that the equipment complied with Hawaiian Electric’s inadvertent export requirements in Rule 22 Customer Self-Supply. A similar tack was taken by the California investor-owned utilities for certain advanced inverter features in Rule 21 while certification to IEEE 1547.1 -2020 was 
still unavailable. 
This is th e simplest method of verification and manufacturers that have compliant products 
can likely turn around signed attestations in much less time than typical certifications 
through a NRTL. However, since the manufacturers’ capabilities are neither checked against a standard test protocol nor verified by a third party, there are potential risks. Without a detailed test specification, there can be no guarantee that different products behave in similar ways in response to a wide range of conditions. There is no real way around this drawback, but detailed, clear performance requirements can help ensure the required capabilities are not interpreted differently between different companies or individuals. It would be important for manufacturers to take part in the development of the performance requirements to ensure they are well understood by those that will implement them.  
Since the manufacturer is providing the attestation, there is no check from a third-party to ensure the equipment capability is actually in line with requirements, potentially leading to equipment mis -operating once installed in the field. Market dynamics may be enough of a 
deterrent to ensure manufacturers do not willfully misrepresent their equipment. 
Additionally, if a manufacturer were to inten tionally misstate their equipment’s capabilities, 
the utility could impose compliance penalties on the manufacturer, such as by no longer accepting its attestation.  
As discussed above, if one or more states were to pursue this avenue it might provide 
useful information to inform the standards development process, while also enabling ESS 
systems to begin providing the benefits associated with operating schedules.  
 
C. Developing Methodologies for Efficient Evaluation of Energy 
Storage Projects With Proposed Operating Profiles  
While the development of standards and/or other means for providing utilities with 
assurance that ESS can reliably perform according to operating schedules is a critical step, this alone does not resolve the fundamental question of how projects with operating schedules will be evaluated in the interconnection process. To date, very little has been done to explore how utilities will evaluate the p otential impacts of projects that are 
proposed with an operating schedule or any type of operating profile. Significant gaps exist in terms of understanding existing utility capabilities, data needs, and methods that can be used to efficiently, and cost -effectively, screen and study projects using operating 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 145 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  profiles. The grid benefits of schedulable ESS cannot be realized if utility screening and 
study processes do not evolve to accurately evaluate operating schedules, thus it is critical for regulators to facilitate development in this area. Promoting pilots to allow energy storage to be interconnected on a non -traditional study basis where storage functionality 
is used to avoid negative grid impacts in place of upgrades is a recommended way forward. 
1. Utility Data Needs for Evaluating Operating Profiles  
Because scheduling capabilities are relatively new, are not yet supported by standards, and the need for scheduled services has not been acute in the past, utilities generally conduct the screening and s tudy process assuming that projects will be operating at full 
capacity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In the case of solar-only projects, the penetration 
screens (see discussion in Chapter IV.C.3.a.i) and the stud y process can take into account 
that the project will only operate during daytime hours, but this is different than evaluating 
a true schedule. It is important to recognize that since utilities assume consistent operation, they are able to conduct studies using relatively limited grid data currently. In essence, many utilities may be evaluating projects using only the absolute recorded minimum and peak loads on a feeder. This means that the utility effectively needs to run only a single iteration of the pow er flow analysis to determine if a project will cause system impacts at 
any point during a year.  
When it comes to evaluating a project using a more nuanced operating profile, utilities are 
likely to need access to grid data for more hours of the day and year, and may also need to develop new methods for running power flow models so that evaluations of operating profiles can be conducted efficiently.  
The exact data needs and study capabilities and techniques will vary based upon how complex of an operating  profile is being evaluated. For example, if a solar-plus -storage 
project is proposing to simply extend the hours of operation into the evening hours and can propose a fixed operating schedule that corresponds to these hours, the technical evaluation can b e conducted in essentially the same manner as it would be for a solar-only 
project, with the minimum load only being selected from a wider range of hours. Similarly, if an ESS project is proposing to not export to the grid during periods of low demand ( i.e., 
between 12 -3 pm when solar generation may be abundant in certain states), the minimum 
load can be selected during just the proposed hours of operation.  
However, studies— and corresponding data needs —get more complex when operating 
schedules contain mult iple different operating periods. For example, if a project proposes 
to utilize a seasonal operating schedule, there may be a maximum output period for each 
season and thus there may need to be more than one minimum load hour evaluated. The 
complexity can continue to increase, including variations during different days of the week, 
months of the year, and different export amounts (output), up to the point where there is a different operating point for each of the 8,760 hours of the year. As the schedules in crease 
in complexity, so too will the utility’s data needs in order to be able to accurately evaluate how the varying output corresponds to different grid conditions during those hours.  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 146 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  There is considerable variation across the country in the amount of data that utilities collect 
and can readily access. Some utilities do not presently collect, warehouse, or publish hourly feeder data for interconnection purposes, but others have access to considerably more data for a variety of uses, including for interco nnection, hosting capacity analysis, 
and other grid operational needs.  
To start studying complex operating profiles in the context of time -specific feeder 
conditions, it will be necessary for some utilities to collect granular feeder load data for 
compari son to the proposed operating profile. On the other hand, it may be possible for 
many utilities to start evaluating projects with simpler operating profiles immediately while further data is collected and study processes are refined.  
This data can come fr om many sources. These sources may include, but are not limited to, 
advanced metering infrastructure (AMI), substation metering, SCADA, distribution 
transformer metering, billing departments, etc. This data can be further processed for 
better load modeling  if needed.
105 Additional methods of capturing this hourly data through 
distributed energy resource management systems (DERMS), advanced distribution 
management systems (ADMS), DER communications such as IEEE 2030.5, etc. may also need to be investigated an d developed by industry stakeholders where rapid and 
ubiquitous AMI deployments are cost prohibitive.  
 
2. Defining Screening and Study Techniques for Operating Profiles  
In addition to addressing utility data needs, the techniques for screening and studying 
projects with operating profiles require further development as well. Transitioning from comparing a project to a single minimum load hour to comparing it to multiple different temporally-specific periods requires consideration of the most efficient method for conducting the analysis, the computing and technical resources required, and the manner in which the results will be communicated to customers. As discussed above with respect 
to the data needs, the complexity of the studies will vary based upon the nature of the proposed operating profile.  
a. Using Hosting Capacity Analyses to Evaluate Proposed Operating Profiles  
One method for screening projects with operating profiles that regulators may want to consider is the utilization of detailed hosting capacity analyses. When hosting capacity analyses are conducted using granular hourly profiles ( e.g., 576 hours per year or more), 
they can provide a detailed “hosting capacity profile” that shows for each hour evaluated what the hosting capacity limit is for each technical criteria evaluated. If the analysis is conducted with high -quality, granular data and is updated frequently, it has the potential 
to dramatically simplify  the process for screening projects with operating profiles. Projects 
could be allowed to interconnect without the need for customized power flow analyses so 
 
105 Xiangqi Zhu and Barry Mather, Data-Driven Distribution System Load Modeling for Quasi- Static Time -Series 
Simulation (Sept. 10, 2019), https://www.osti.gov/pages/servlets/purl/1606307 . 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 147 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  long as their proposed profile is below the hosting capacity limit for every hour evaluated 
in the  analysis. Chapter VI.B.2.b  discusses this option further, describes the steps that 
California has taken in this direction, and also details the reservations that some stakeholders have about utilizing hosting capacity an alyses in the screening processes.  
 
 3. Recommendations  
At present, discussions regarding evaluation of operating profiles are just beginning to occur in the U.S. and there have yet to be comprehensive papers, best practices, or guides drafted to inform regulators on how to conduct these analyses. As of this writing, few jurisdictions appear to have established guidelines for interconnecting ESS with an operating profile. Identified efforts led by Massachusetts are preliminary and, based on project research, no schedule -based interconnections have been allowed to date. In order 
to move this capability forward and enable ESS to provide valuable time -specific grid 
services, it is recommended that regulators either proactively begin to convene working group discussions or encourage others to do so in order to work through these issues with utility and DER stakeholders. Some outside bodies ( e.g., the National Association of 
Regulatory Utility Commissioners, the U.S. Department of Energy, etc.) could help move the conversation forward. 
Specifically, regulators should seek to have utilities identify what data they have available 
and what additional data they believe they may need to evaluate a range of different operating profiles. They should also outline w hat methods utilities intend to use to evaluate 
projects with proposed operating profiles. Armed with this information, a working group can determine what changes to the interconnection procedures may be necessary and also what data or capabilities may nee d to be acquired to facilitate an efficient evaluation 
of ESS with operating profiles. As discussed more below in Chapter IX.D , these discussions 
can also help determine what information, and in what format, applicants should provide to utilities about proposed operating schedules. If the necessary data or capabilities for a full evaluation of sophisticated operating profiles does not exist, the working group can evaluate steps to allow for evaluation of simpler profiles in t he near term. This work can be 
conducted concurrently with the standards or other schedule assurance processes outlined in Chapter IX.B.1.a  and IX.B.2 . 
 
D. Establishing Standardized For mats for Communication of 
Operating Schedules  
The final area that requires attention in order to facilitate the interconnection of ESS with fixed operating schedules concerns how those schedules will be communicated to the utility for evaluation. For utilities to be able to evaluate the interconnection application of an ESS with a proposed operating schedule, the applicant will need to provide detail about the project’s operating profile in a format that aligns with how the utility will be evaluating the p roject.  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 148 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The project team surveyed several utilities across states typically engaged in progressive 
interconnection rulemaking, including California, New York, and Massachusetts. While none of the utilities surveyed are at the stage of conducting analyses that lead to binding 
interconnection agreements based on proposed schedules, some are at least starting to consider how information on schedules should be provided.  
 Where they exist, schedule submission guidelines vary. For example, the NY Standardized Interconne ction Requirements (SIR) Appendix K simply states: 
“Indicate any specific and/or 
additional operational limitations that will be imposed (e.g. [ sic] will not charge between 2- 7pm 
on weekdays)”.106 The Massachusetts process is more refined and was developed through a 
series of collaborative meetings between the utilities and key stakeholders. This effort resulted 
in the development of a standardized worksheet, shown in Figure 11, which some of the 
collaborating stakeholders proposed for use as a template for the submittal of an operating 
schedule.107 The Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities had previously approved the 
use of a more simplified worksheet and has yet to formally adopt the proposed updated 
worksheet, but it is a useful example nonetheless.108  
 
 
106 National Grid, Upstate NY Form K, https://ngus.force.com/s/article/Upstate- NY-Form -K.  
107 MA Dept. of Pub. Util. Docket 19 -55, Inquiry by the Department of Public Utilities on its own Motion into Distributed 
Generation Interconnection,  Collaborative Process Filing, Consensus Document B  (Oct. 13, 2020), 
https://fileservice.eea.comacloud.net/FileService.Api/file/FileRoom/12771446 .  
108 MA Dept. of Pub. Util. Docket 19 -55, Hearing Officer Memorandum: I nterim Guidance – Energy Storage Systems, 
ESS Questionnaire  (Dec. 3, 2019), https://fileservice.eea.comacloud.net/FileService.Api/file/FileRoom/11510272 .  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 149 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage        
Figure 11. Proposed Operating Schedule Details, Massachusetts  
Note: Each additional season/variation provided will increase the cost and duration of the Impact Study  
 
In addition to the table shown above, New York and Massachusetts utilities currently 
request that applicants provide a free -form description of the use cases and other 
characteristics of the operating profile. Such methods are likely to elicit respo nses 
including undefined use cases, non -uniform times, or other features that are subject to 
interpretation and not conducive to uniform or automated study processes. For utilities to use such free -form responses in an automated study process, it would nee d to be 
translated into a software -compatible format. Additionally, developers and utilities would 
have to align on use case definitions and other factors. The gap between these free -form 
responses and a template that could be directly used by automated st udy processes has 
been identified as an opportunity for development.  
 

 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 150 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  1. Taxonomy Working Group Template  
In 2021, EPRI convened the Energy Storage Functional Taxonomy Working Group.109 The 
goal of this working group is to develop a common understanding of ESS terms and a 
template that can be used to communicate a complete operating schedule at the time of 
interconnection for any proposed energy storage project. The goal is to help to st reamline 
interconnections and reduce workload as the quantity of deployed DERs continues to rise. 
The operating schedule under development will contain information regarding what the 
storage is doing, when it is intended to do it, and perhaps most importan tly, what import 
and export limits are in place at what times. It is intended that this information can be 
communicated in a single spreadsheet format that can prevent the utility from needing to manually translate it to an electronic format. 
As part of th e taxonomy effort, the group is developing a template, shown in Figure 12 , to 
communicate these datapoints in an hourly format that could be used directly by 
automated study processes. The goal of this template is to provide  a normalized format 
that can enable streamlined future interconnections that account for the unique capabilities of storage, such as operating to a schedule, and/or in accordance with import and export limitations. Since this working group is ongoing at t he time of this writing, the 
template is likely to evolve.  
The template proposes an hourly operating schedule, and could be adapted to a shorter or longer time interval as needed. Hourly scheduling is currently recommended by the working group as most tar iffs with time -of-use components or other peak times typically 
use whole -hour times. Use of an 8760 -hour schedule is recommended as hourly load data 
will be stored in this format and because many tariffs include weekends, seasonal changes, 
holidays, and similar features that could affect system operations.  
The second and third columns describe import and export limitations by percentage of 
either system nameplate or total facility rating. These import and export limit columns provide the critical information that describes a scheduled system’s capability to respect 
time-specific hosting capacity issues. Subsequent columns describe the use cases and 
how each use case is related to the next. This is useful for understanding the likely 
behavior of a proposed s ystem.  
As an example, the sample template shown below depicts a purely theoretical customer storage system that would normally operate in self -consumption mode but can provide 
demand response during afternoon peak hours. The sample system is configured to  be 
able to export only during demand response events. During that time, import or charge is 
disabled to prevent it from adding to peak demand. 
The list of use cases below is provided as an example. In cases where multiple use cases 
are intended, such as time-of-use support with a secondary use case of backup power, a 
 
109 Electric Power Research Institute, Energy Storage Functions Taxonomy Working Group (June 3, 2021), 
https://www.epri.com/research/programs/067418/events/93B041AC -D90B -4F0E -B9D5 -8EDA6439A33F .  
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation of Operating Schedules  
 
 151 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  secondary or even tertiary column may be used to express the alternate use case. The 
hourly import and export limits are the items of primary interest for interconnection needs today. Howeve r, the communication of what use case(s) the storage will engage in can aid 
future modeling and study efforts. A column between the primary and secondary use cases provides a description of the relationship between use cases. In the sample, it suggests 
that the secondary use case is engaged by a grid outage. Other example descriptors of 
relationships between use cases could include “dispatched,” “simultaneous,” “price signal,” and others.  
 
Hour  Import 
Limit  Export 
Limit  Primary Use Case  Relation 
Between 
Uses Secondary Use 
Case  Sample Use Cases  
0:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
• RE Firming  
• Solar Smoothing  
• Clipping Capture  
• Self-
Consumption 
• Backup Power  
• Black Start  
• Upgrade 
Deferral  
• Microgrid  
• Grid Forming  
• Energy Arbitrage  
• TOU Support  
• Demand 
Response  
• Demand Charge 
Management  
• GHG Reduction  
• Frequency 
Regulation  
• Voltage 
Regulation  
• Energy 
Balancing  
• Storm 
Preparedness  1:00 100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
2:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
3:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
4:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
5:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
6:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
7:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
8:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
9:00  50% 0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
10:00  50% 0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
11:00  50% 0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
12:00  50% 0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
13:00  50% 0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
14:00  0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
15:00  0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
16:00  0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
17:00  0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
18:00 0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
19:00  0% 100%  Demand 
Response  Outage  Backup Power  
20:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
21:00  100%  0% Self-Consumption  Outage  Backup Power  
…… …… ……    
8760  …… ……    
Figure 12. Sample Operating Schedule Template and Applicable Use Cases  
 
This template is intended to communicate the import/export limits that comprise an 
applicant’s fixed operating schedule. Many stakeholders, however, have significant interest in the ability to dispatch energy storage. This dispatch may be for many purposes including grid support, market participation, or renewables integration, but the ability to 
 
 
IX. Defining Rules and Processes for the Evaluation o f Operating Schedules  
 
 152 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  model and study how dispatch of energy storage will impact the gri d is presently lacking. 
The provision of hourly import/export limits can serve as guardrails to keep any potential 
actions dispatched by remote signals from directing the ESS outside of acceptable operating parameters for that specific time of day. 
  
 2. Recommendations  
Regulators will need to convene a process to establish a standard template for the 
communication of operating profiles. While the final outcome of the Energy Storage Functions Taxonomy Working Group will be informative to this process, regulators will need to consider whether all of the information indicated above is actually necessary to provide based upon the manner in which utilities will actually study projects. A utility’s study capabilities will inform whether all the information indica ted above actually serves 
any functional purpose in the interconnection review process. For example, it is not clear to all of the BATRIES project team members how detailed information on use cases in the 
interconnection application will actually be used i f the utility is only ultimately going to 
analyze the amount the project imports or exports during each hour. Thus, regulators and 
utilities should work together to consider the requirements for communicating an operating schedule at the same time that the  utility’s data needs and study process are 
evaluated as outlined above in Chapter IX.C . By considering these topics together, 
regulators and utilities can settle on an approach that facilitates safe and reliable interconnec tion of ESS while also not overburdening either the applicant or the utility with 
unnecessary data requirements. To this effect, regulators and utilities may want to consider whether the template and information requirements should vary based upon the leve l of 
complexity of an applicant’s proposed operating schedule and also whether they should evolve along with the utility’s study capabilities. 
  
 X. Conclusion
 
 
X. Conclusion  
 
 153 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  X. Conclusion  
As the demand for grid-connected storage grows, states and utilities have an opportunity 
to unlock its unique operating capabilities to benefit the grid and more efficiently integrate clean energy resources. However, challenges related to how storage systems are evaluated and treated within the interconnection process can increase project costs and delay storage deployment. To assist states in streamlining the process, the BATRIES project team identified storage interconnection barriers emerging in multiple jurisdictions and provided solutions vetted through a collaborative process and informed by external experts, culminating in this Toolkit. The Toolkit includes background information and guidance on eight critical interconnection topics that should be considered as jurisdictions seek to integrate storage in a more efficient and co st-effective manner. 
As grid constraints and storage adoption increase, the ability to recognize and enable the flexibility and other capabilities that storage can offer will become more critical. State interconnection rules and practices will need to cont inue to evolve to integrate storage 
efficiently and address other issues that may emerge.   
 XI. Appendices
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 154 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  XI. Appendices  
A. Unaddressed Barriers  
The project team identified a host of storage interconnection challenges that merit 
solutions development, and which were beyond the time and resources available as part 
of the BATRIES project. Given the volume of barriers, it’s likely that no single project would 
be able to address them all in detail. The project team provides the below table in order to facilitate future so lutions development by other stakeholders.  
In addition to the table, the project team briefly notes two particular storage 
interconnection barriers that merit discussion but require significant further technical 
research to develop. By highlighting these issues, the project team intends to tee them up for potential future research and solutions development, such as by national laboratories or other stakeholders. Those issues include:  
● Addressing the Risks of Storage Systems Causing Flicker or Rapid Voltage Changes  
● Addressing the Impacts of Storage System Power Transitions
  
 
1. Addressing the Risks of Storage Systems Causing Flicker or 
Rapid Voltage Changes  
When storage systems experience major changes in their output levels, this can result in flicker or rap id voltage changes (RVCs) on the distribution circuit. The methods for 
evaluating the impacts of energy storage system power transitions are not well known or defined, which can result in ambiguity during the interconnection process. This ambiguity is a ba rrier to fair and efficient interconnection of ESS.  
Flicker is a phenomenon resulting from fluctuating loads or generation resources where voltage is impacted repetitively such that visible and irritating flickering of incandescent lights can be perceived by the human eye. Limits on flicker emission are given in IEEE 1547 -
2018 along with assessment methods. 
RVCs are a drastic change from one voltage value to another. IEEE 1547-2018 limits RVCs 
to 3% of nominal voltage at medium voltage, and 5% of nominal at low voltage. IEEE 1547 clarifies that these limits are intended for frequent events, not those that occur infrequently 
“such as switching, unplanned tripping, or transformer energization related to 
commissioning, fault restoration, or maintenance.” 
It is apparent that rapid voltage change and flicker effects are not studied in a standardized 
manner across utilities. While a commonly used reference is IEEE 1453, different 
assumptions may go into evaluating how many DERs undergo transition and how they 
transition during different events. For instance, some hosting capacity programs or utility 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 155 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  studies assume tripping of all DERs at the same time. This would fall into the non -applicable 
“infrequent events” described by IEEE 1547. However, as described in section 2.2.1, the 
potential for different use cases to cause large aggregate changes in ESS power needs to be better understood to create appropriate assumptions for utility evaluations. Without guidance on how to do so, the utility may be forced to create the ir own set of conservative 
assumptions on how to address those issues.  
As the flicker and RVC concerns are tied to power transitions in general, the Normal Ramp Rate could have similar usefulness as described in the next section. 
a. Recommendations  
Some of the gaps that future research may need to address include the issues of what flicker or RVC impacts are likely to result from different distribution - and transmission -level 
use cases, and guidance on evaluations of flicker based on IEEE 1547 -2018 requirements.  
 
2. Addressing the Impacts of Storage System Power Transitions  
Energy storage systems can undergo rapid changes in their charge and discharge levels, which can result in grid impacts. There is no standardized way to characteriz e ESS 
performance during power transitions. There is no widely accepted specific guidance that exists on how ESS equipment should address power transitions for different use cases. Furthermore, the methods of evaluating the impacts of energy storage system  power 
transitions are not well known or defined, which can result in ambiguity during the interconnection process.  
Drastic power flow changes have the potential to create rapid voltage change or flicker 
effects on the distribution grid, depending on the circuit characteristics near the DER location. The ability of (especially inverter-interfaced) ESS to change operating 
characteristics rapidly creates a potential concern for distribution utilities and the desire to 
investigate potential voltage effects du ring the interconnection evaluation. While this can 
be true for ESS of any size, it is more true for larger systems or aggregations of systems that change charge or discharge level at the same time.  
Use cases for services at the Independent System Operator (ISO)/Regional Transmission 
Organization (RTO) level, where DERs participate in aggregate (such as envisioned by FERC Order 2222) may potentially have negative effects on power quality at the distribution system level when multiple systems on a circuit re spond to the same signal 
with a large power change. Time -of-use billing management is another potential use case 
that could cause groups of ESS in different locations on a circuit to respond similarly at the same time, even when not managed in aggregate.  
Information can be lacking or not readily available to the utility engineer for studying 
voltage effects. Different manufacturers may provide different levels of information on power transitions, as there are no test requirements defined to characterize tho se 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 156 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  transitions. This could cause back -and -forth requests for information between the utility 
and developer and/or manufacturer, possibly leading to extended time needed for utility 
studies. Add to this that the utility cannot count on ESS operating in an o rganized fashion 
to minimize their aggregate effects on the distribution system, and the utility may be forced to take a conservative approach and assume worst -case impacts from both the individual 
system as well as the aggregate. The approach taken by the  utility may be driven to be 
even more conservative since limited tools or guidance exist on how to evaluate ESS in relation to these power transitions. The utility may not have enough information on how a particular use case affects the operation of the E SS over time. Additionally, the RVC and 
flicker effects are not studied in a standardized manner across utilities, so the utility may be forced to create its own set of assumptions on how to address those issues.  
One potentially useful function provided by some ESS inverters is the Normal Ramp Rate, 
which was defined by California Rule 21 and Hawaii Rule 14H, with an associated performance test in UL 1741 Supplement SA. This function is not a required capability included in IEEE 1547- 2018, so it is unclear whether or not ESS manufacturers will continue 
to support it. Currently, it is only defined as limiting power ramps in the positive change direction. ESS are capable of limiting power ramps in the negative direction as well, but no 
standardized conformance  test exists for the negative ramp direction. As typically 
implemented, this normal ramp rate would affect all power transitions regardless of the use 
case. 
a. Recommendations  
The UL 1741 Supplement SA should be updated to include the ability to test for limiting 
power ramps in the negative direction. Some of the gaps that future research may need to address include the issues of what distribution system impacts are likely to result from different distribution - and transmission -level use cases, and guidance on designing ramp 
rates for different use cases to avoid distribution system impacts.  
 
Additional Storage Interconnection Issues for Future Research and Solutions Development  
Storage Issues Identified 
During BATRIES Scoping 
Process and Not Pursued  Explanation  
Interconnection Dispute 
Resolution  Defining or improving the process by which utilities and 
customers resolve an interconnection disagreement ( e.g., 
timeline compliance or upgrade cost estimate disputes).  
Timelines for Study, 
Construction, and Overall 
Interconnection Process  Reducing the length of time it takes to complete the 
review processes and approve an interconnection 
request.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 157 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Interaction Between 
Interconnection Engineering 
Review and Service Requests  Streamlining the utility process for handling new service 
requests and DER interconnections ( e.g., single portal or 
direct interaction with service planning). 
Interconnection Application 
Portals  Providing guidance on creating or improving utility web 
portals, which allow customers to apply for 
interconnection online.  
Cybersecurity  Identifying ways to prevent and respond to cyber threats 
that could impact the electric grid, including how to 
address any risks that may arise from DERs and 
aggregators.  
Autom ation  Streamlining the interconnection process through 
software automation and other solutions to improve the 
customer experience and internal utility workflows. 
How to Inform Safety Protocols  Ensuring that requirements for storage system 
interconnection are coordinated with national standards 
and provide clear guidance on safe operation of ESS on 
the grid.  
How to Develop Advisory 
Documentation  Providing guidance on documentation of conformity  from 
manufacturers to ensure that it is readily available and 
consistent, which can help utilities understand new 
products, their capabilities, and whether or not they 
comply with certain utility tariffs.  
Fiscal Certainty  Establishing transparent, clearly defined utility protocols 
that enable customers to understand the need for certain 
interconnection studies and their associated fees. 
Providing greater certainty around upgrade costs and 
other fees can reduce the financial risk related to 
developing a project.  
Tariff Compliance  Streamlining utility review of a DER system to verify 
whether or not it will operate in accordance with a 
specified tariff, such as net energy metering.  
Queue Withdrawal Penalties  Reviewing and providing guidance on the design and 
application of queue withdrawal penalties. If a customer 
decides to remove a project from the queue, they can 
face steep withdrawal penalties from the utility.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 158 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Interconnection to Networked 
Distribution Systems  Providing technical guidance on interconnecting storage 
and solar -plus -storage systems to networked distribution 
systems. Current guidance and procedures are very 
limited and apply conservative rules of thumb that may 
make interconnect ion more costly for these systems.  
Ramp Rate Limits  Providing guidance on ramp rate limits, which involves 
controlling the rate of increase or decrease of power 
output through predefined limits.  
Defining Telemetry and 
Metering Requirements for 
Specific Use Cases  Defining metering and telemetry requirements for the 
different configurations of storage and solar-plus -storage 
systems and the diversity of use cases to avoid 
redundancy and minimize costs.  
Thresholds for Interconnection 
Review Screen s A review of eligibility limits and screening values in light 
of energy storage capabilities. 
Vendor Documentation  Providing guidance on documentation from 
manufacturers to ensure that it is readily available and 
consistent, which can help utilities in t heir evaluation of 
interconnection requests.  
Predefined Setpoints  Definition of selectable standardized settings for energy 
storage parameters.  
Interoperability  Improving the capability of communicating across 
different networks and between technologies that have 
distinct settings.  
How to Accommodate Project 
Ownership Transfer Ensuring that there is clarity in the rules to allow for DER 
projects to be sold and ownership to be transferred to 
another customer.  
Wholesale Market Participation 
Impacts on Storage 
Interconnection  Determining if ESS participation in wholesale markets 
through the provision of capacity, energy, or ancillary 
services will impact the interconnection process for ESS 
and the way those systems should be studied. 
Rule Appl icability  Identifying the types of regulations that can apply to all 
states and utilities and the types of regulations that need 
to be more state - or utility-specific.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 159 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Aggregate Impacts of Islands  Evaluation of the effect of concurrent disconnection or 
reconnection of multiple microgrids (intentional islands) 
on the electric system.  
ESS Value Stacking  Understanding the challenges of providing multiple 
services to the grid to maximize ESS revenue streams.  
Improving Distribution System 
Planning  Identifying better grid planning and forecasting practices 
to determine grid needs that can be met with DERs.  
Applicability to Vehicle -to-Grid 
(V2G) or Vehicle-to -Home (V2H)  Understanding how solutions that address challenges 
related to stationary  energy storage will impact V2G or 
V2H applications.  
 
B. Power Control Systems and the UL CRD  
 1. Background  
In 2019, industry stakeholders, including utilities, developers, and equipment suppliers, 
were convened by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) to define a control function called a Power Control System (PCS) to provide local management of generation and storage  
output power. The idea is a certified device or a built -in DER capability that can be tested, 
certified, and listed. The PCS can support export limitation functionality for interconnection and net energy metering (NEM) tariffs that exist in certain region s, as well as conductor 
and bus ampacity limitations in accordance with the National Electric Code.  
This task group developed definitions, test, and certification criteria for a PCS as an extension of the UL  1741 standard. The UL process for making such a dditions is called a 
Certification Requirement Decision (CRD). CRDs are the preliminary documents developed through UL’s deliberative process to inform revisions to existing or future product listings. CRDs are a primary vehicle for addressing new requirem ents in standards. It is expected 
that the PCS tests currently found in the CRD will be incorporated directly into UL 1741, likely before the end of 2022.  
 
 2. Test Protocol Summary  
The CRD for PCS contains a number of tests for assessing a set of PCS fun ctionalities—
including the ability to control active power export and/or import at an external reference point (often a P oint of Common Coupling, or PCC) —that have not been previously 
addressed in UL 1741. While not yet part of the UL 1741 standard, the CR D document must 
be utilized in order to qualify for UL product certification programs. 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 160 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Beyond serving as the test protocol for demonstrating a system’s capability to support 
import and export limits under a variety of conditions,110 the UL 1741 CRD for PCS also 
recognizes the possibility of inadvertent export or import, which is power flow beyond the specified limit that occurs for short periods of time. For instance, inadvertent export may 
occur when a load drops off suddenly and there is a delay while the PCS measures the 
excess power flow, sends control signals, and the inverters respond. To mitigate the 
potential for disruption, it mandates that the time the PCS takes to respond to inadvertent 
export, known as the open loop response time (OLRT),
111 be meas ured through a series of 
load drops and step changes in generation. It requires that the OLRT be no greater than 
30 seconds (although manufacturers can —and do —support faster response times, in some 
cases to meet regulatory requirements).  
No specific pass/f ail criteria currently exist regarding the required temporal response of 
the PCS. Until such standardized requirements are developed, the CRD enforces a 
maximum OLRT of 30 seconds. As such, CRD testing procedures are generalized. 
Standardized OLRTs and dedicated tests to verify PCS response times based on grid conditions, DER size, and other factors could offer greater guidance and benefit to manufacturers, developers, regulators, and utilities alike. Moreover, as specific utility 
requirements for PCS respo nse times are established, awareness of the response times of 
other grid equipment ( e.g., voltage regulator and capacitor controls which can sometimes 
be configured to respond in 30 seconds or less) should be taken into account. 
 
As part of a research proj ect funded by the New York State Energy Research and 
Development Authority (NYSERDA),112 EPRI and partners113 have developed draft 
procedures for testing Power Control Systems for distributed energy storage. The 
test protocol, which was developed with reference to the software control tests in 
the UL 1741 CRD for PCS, describes different test conditions to evalua te how 
accurately PCS can limit grid export and import (if that capability is available). It is 
intended to help facilitate the approval of vendor systems114 that incorporate 
controls for backfeed prevention and operating limits in defined configurations. 
 
 
110 Unrestricted, export only, import only mode, and no exchange operating modes may optionally be supported by the 
PCS.  
111 The CRD for PCS defines open loop response time as: “The duration between a control signal inp ut step change 
(reference value or system parameter) until the controlled output changes by 90% of its final change, before any 
overshoot.”  
112 The project, titled “Controls Testing for Behind -the-Meter Energy Storage Backfeed Prevention,” was awarded 
under the NYSERDA Program Opportunity Notice (PON) 4074.  
113 Project partners are New York Battery and Energy Storage Technology (NY -BEST) Consortium and DNV GL, and 
included collaboration with New York utilities and equipment OEMs.  
114 Such PCS systems may be made up of inverters and converters, engine generators, energy storage devices, and 
other energy sources used in conjunction with or without additional external control devices and sensors.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 161 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Applicable to different residential, commercial, industrial, and utility -scale ESS 
applications, the draft test plan adds test scenarios beyond those in the CRD to 
address concerns voiced by utilities in New York. It is expected to require ongoing 
revision s based on lab testing and measurement results, stakeholder feedback, and 
future modifications to the UL 1741 CRD for PCS. For now, the protocol is meant to 
serve as a means for validating equipment that can help enable replicability and 
cost-effective beh ind-the-meter battery installation in New York (and potentially 
beyond). For more information, the test plan will be included in the following report, 
which will also contain example test results: Performance Assessment of Power 
Control System (PCS): Grid Export/Import Limiting from BTM DERs. EPRI, Palo Alto, 
CA: 2021. 3002021688 . 
 
In addition to the OLRT, the CRD requires testing of abnormal conditions such as loss of 
control circuit power, loss of control signal, and loss of signal from sensors due to open circuit or short circuit. These conditions must be appropriately detected du ring both startup 
and normal operation. The PCS also checks for incorrect installation at startup. Some exceptions to these tests are provided if additional protections are put in place for the PCS. Power must be kept at or below the set limit during any o f the abnormal conditions. A 
summary of the CRD is contained in Table XI.1 . 
Customers may not alter PCS modes after a system is commissioned. The CRD ensures the PCS prevents any changes to operating mode configurations in the field, except at initial commissioning.  
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 162 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table XI. 1 . Summary of UL Certification Requirement Decision (CRD)  
UL CRD  Definition/Description  Notes  Normal Operating Tests Step change in 
load test  Evaluates the ability of a 
PCS to control the current at 
a remote reference point in 
response to step changes in 
parallel connected load  - Timed switching (on and 
off) of the parallel connected 
load and monitoring the time 
taken to stabilize and reach 
the steady state  
- Generation is held constant 
during each test and the 
testing is repeated at various 
constant input power levels  
Step change in 
generation test  Evaluates the ability of a 
PCS to control the current at 
a remote reference point in 
response to step changes in 
input power to the DER units  - Timed switching (on and 
off) of the generation 
(inverter powered DC 
source) and monitoring the 
time taken to reach the 
steady state  
- Load is held constant 
during each test and the 
testing is repeated at various 
load levels  Operating Modes  Unrestricted mode  The ESS may import active 
power from Area EPS while 
charging and may export 
active power to the Area 
EPS while discharging  No restrictions on energy 
storage operations  
Export only  ESS may export active 
power to grid while 
discharging but shall not 
charge active power from 
the Area EPS  Restriction on energy 
storage charging from the 
grid 
Import only  The ESS may import active 
power from the Area EPS for 
charging purposes but shall 
not export active power to 
the Area EPS.  Restriction on energy 
storage exporting to the grid  
No exchange  The ESS shall not exchange 
active power with the Area 
EPS both during charging 
and discharging purposes  ESS can only charge from 
local sources and discharge 
to support local loads  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 163 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Export and Import Limiting Optional Tests 
Export limiting from 
all sources  This test characterizes the 
ability of the PCS to limit 
exports from all sources  in 
response to dynamic 
changes in local generation 
and onsite loads  
Step change in load and 
generation tests are 
repeated PCS external 
reference point is assumed 
to be the Poi nt of 
Interconnection  Export limiting from 
ESS This test characterizes the 
ability of the PCS to limit 
output of energy storage  to 
limit active power export at 
an external reference point  
Import limiting to 
ESS This test characterizes the 
ability of the PCS to limit 
input to energy storage  to 
limit active power import 
from an external reference 
point  Abnormal Tests 
Loss of 
communication and 
component/control 
failure  The CRD verifies the 
functional reliability of the 
PCS, if anything abnormal 
happens. At the simplest 
level, a PCS should fail 
gracefully, i.e., fail in a way 
that minimizes grid impacts 
and does not create 
hazardous conditions.  The abnormal condition tests 
include installation 
miswiring, failure of sensors, 
and associated control 
wiring, loss of control system 
power, and loss of control 
signal  
The CRD requires self -
checks of the system at 
initial startup and 
periodically thereaf ter 
 
 
3. Example Configurations  
Figure XI.1 provides an example of how a PCS could be set up to support export limiting at 
a meter. This arrangement uses a current sensor (or possibly a connection to an existing meter) to measure the current at a specified point and manages the local resources as needed to prevent or limit energy export.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 164 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Figure XI. 1. Local Power Control System Supporting Export Limiting (EPRI)  
 
The system shown in Figure XI.2  is a similar example that could be used to support NEM 
integrity. This arrangement measures the sum of the solar-plus -storage at the DER 
subpanel. In this case, the PCS could act, for example, to ensure that the ESS charges only 
from the PV system (not fr om the grid) by limiting the battery charge level so that the total 
measured current does not become negative.  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 165 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Figure XI. 2. Local Power Control System Supporting NEM Integrity (EPRI)  
 
C. Research Supporting Voltage Change (Inadvertent Export) 
Screen Recommendation  
Consideration should be given to both the voltage and thermal impacts that inadvertent 
export could cause. Voltag e regulator and capacitor controls are sometimes configured to 
respond in 30 seconds or less, making it possible for inadvertent export to cause tap operations that prematurely wear regulation equipment. An analysis of these impacts for 
different feeder, l oad, and inadvertent export scenarios is covered in Chapter V .  
As specific utility requirements for export -limiting temporal response time are established, 
awareness of the response time of other grid equipment should be tak en into 
consideration. So far, modeling indicates that OLRTs of 10 seconds or less will result in 
fewer interactions with line regulators on feeders. In some cases, as part of the DER interconnection study process, it may be possible to reconfigure existin g grid equipment 
to align with the export -limiting response time. 
Faster response of an export -limiting system also means that any voltage quality impacts 
will be relatively short -term events. Change in voltage (ΔV) at medium voltage is the metric 
for powe r quality compatibility of the DER, as seen by other customers. IEEE 1547-2018 
includes a power quality limit for rapid voltage change (RVC) that is 3% at medium voltage 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 166 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  and 5% at low voltage. These are average (Root Mean Square, or RMS) voltage change 
limits averaged over one second for each change. An inadvertent export can be 
characterized as two RVCs— one fast change in power at the beginning of the event 
followed by a slower ramp according to the OLRT of the system.  
It is expected that a simplified est imate of ΔV can be used to address inadvertent export 
voltage quality concerns. This limit would apply at the PCC. To evaluate feasibility of using the simplified estimate, typical feeder and DER scenarios from a California PUC -funded 
study
115 were used. Th e relative size of the inadvertent export -induced voltage change at 
any point of connection is based on power system strength relative to the non -exporting 
DER Nameplate Rating. We assume that inadvertent export is the portion of non -exporting 
rating rathe r than the export limit ( i.e., the largest inadvertent export event would be a 
change in power equal to the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity).  
Below are example results from a feeder designated as number 683 in the reference. In 
this case, the feeder is 12 kV, of medium length including a voltage regulator, with moderate load and X/R
116 values ranging from 13 at the substation to .65 at the end of the 
line. The ΔV is calculated at every three -phase node on the feeder, and there are 548 
primary nodes. For purposes of illustration, we assume a 2 MW 3 -phase DER is connected 
node by node and we plot the ΔV as if the DER suddenly changed its full output power without regulator tapping. The power factor used here is unity (1.0) and three methods for  
calculating voltage change, from simplified to exact, are plotted in Figure XI.3 .  
 
 
Figure XI. 3. Voltage Change Calculated Along a Feeder for a 2 MW Change in Export at Each PCC  
 
115 Electric Power Research Institute, Alternatives to the 15% Rule: Final Project Summary  (Dec. 1, 2015), 
https://www.epri.com/research/products/3002006594 . pp. 5 -2 - 5-5. 
116 X/R is a ratio of two electrical circuit parameters—reactance and resistance.  

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 167 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Note from these results there is very little impact from the 2 MW power change for most of 
the feeder (X/R >  4) while the impact is excessive near the end of the feeder (X/R <2). The 
simplified estimate uses the ratio of short circuit MVA to DER MVA to estimate voltage 
change. The detailed estimate (purple plot) is derived from IEEE 1453. This method and the exact calculation (orange plot) yield nearly the same results where the simplified method 
is more conservative at all primary nodes. We are focusing on the estimate (blue plot) in this discussion because this simplified data is normally available at the time of Initial Review, without additional engineering review. If data  for the detailed estimate is available, 
it will provide more accuracy.  
To determine if the simplified method is good enough, we use a DER sizing algorithm suitable to each PCC. This avoids the voltage rise issues at the end of the feeder illustrated in Figure XI.3 . DER size is limited to 4% or 1/25 of the available short circuit power at the 
PCC. Applying it to this feeder yields an available capacity ranging from 6.4 MVA near the 
substation to .4 MVA at the end, as shown in Figure XI.4. For a change of 3%, feeder has a 
capacity of 298 kW at the end using the simplified method. Using the detailed estimate 
results in 368 kW of capacity. 
 
 
Figure XI. 4. Non-Exporting DER Size at Each Node Based on the PCC Short CircuitMVA/DERMVA = 25  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 168 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Similar results for a 4.2 kV feeder (number 888) yield a simplified capacity of 413 kW at the 
end of feeder, with a detailed estimate of 574 kW.  
The simplified voltage change estimate is shown for three different DER power factors in Figure XI.5. These results indicate that the simplified estimating approach at unity power 
factor will provide an effective screen to check the size of an inadvertent export relative to grid voltage fluctuation. Using the detailed estimate will produce even less voltage change. 
 
 
Figure XI. 5. Voltage Changes Assuming Nameplate Power Ch ange at Three Power Factors  
 
D. Modeling, Simulation, and Testing: Technical Evaluation of 
Inadvertent Export —Inadvertent Export Research  
1. Urban Feeder  
    a. Characterization of Urban Feeder  
The examined 12 kV urban distribution feeder includes a load tap changer at the substation 
and 1.2 Mvar117 switched capacitor bank downstream. Further, it has a minimum and 
maximum load of 0.65 MW and 3.2 MW, respectively. Figure XI.6  uses a color scale to 
 
117 Mvar refers to megavolt -amperes (reactive).  

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 169 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  indicate the volt age profile of the circuit (without any solar PV or energy storage systems). 
As shown, voltage is higher near the substation, and lower toward the end of the feeder. 
Figure XI.7  illustrates the feeder voltage profil e under simulated maximum load conditions, 
with the capacitor bank on and off. As indicated by the lower voltages, the feeder requires 
the switched capacitor bank to be activated to prevent undervoltage violations on the primary and feeder lateral branches. 
 
Figure XI. 6. Urban Feeder Voltage- Level Map  
 
 
Figure XI. 7. Voltages Along the Urban Feeder With Capacitor Bank On (Left) and Off (Right)  
 

 
 
XI. Appe ndices  
 
 170 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Hosting capacity results for the selected urban feeder were used to integrate both 
centralized and distributed solar PV. Under minimum load conditions ( Figure XI.8 ), a 
maximum of 2.9 MW of exporting solar PV (450% of feeder minimum load) was introduced, 
based on a hosting capacity limit triggered by primary overvoltage on phase A. Under maximum load conditions and 2. 9 MW of simulated PV (90% of feeder maximum load) 
(Figure XI.9 ), no medium voltage or low voltage violations occurred. 
 
Figure XI. 8. Case 2 Urban Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV Output/Minimum Load 
(Left) and RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right)  
 
 
Figure XI. 9. Urban Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV Output/Maximum Load (Left) and 
RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right)  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 171 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  The 2.9 MW of solar PV deployed also has a location variable effect on feeder loading 
under minimum and maximum loading co nditions ( Figure XI.10 ). This is largely due to the 
size and location of the loads and the distribution of solar PV deployment and its proximity 
to the substation (versus the end of the feeder).  
 
Figure XI. 10. Urban Feeder: Line Loading With Maximum Solar PV Output Under Minimum Load 
Conditions (Case 2) (Left) and Maximum Load Conditions (Right)  
Note: The gradient bars on the right side of each chart show the percentage of the line's current ratings.  
 
                             b. Additional Case 7 Results for Urban Feeder  
Figure XI.11  and Figure XI.12  illustrate the significant mitigation in maximum RMS voltage 
rise associated with coincident inadvertent export in Case 7. In this case, the feeder was 
at its maximum load of 3.2 MW, and exporting solar PV and export -controlled energy 
storage were each set to 2.9 MW, or 5.8 MW total. Coincident inadvertent export from all 
export -controlled systems was simulated at 10 seconds with an OLRT of 10 seconds (Figure 
XI.11) and 30 seconds (Figure XI.12), respectively. While the maximum voltage rise is equal 
in both cases, at an OLRT of 10 seconds, the voltage rise due to inadvertent export decays 
much faster when compared to an OLRT of 30 seconds. 
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 172 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Figure XI. 11. Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve With 10s OLRT (Left) and Time 
Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right)  
 
Figure XI. 12. Case 7 Urban Feeder: Coincident Inadvertent Export Curve With 30s OLRT (Left) and Time 
Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles (Right)  
 
c. Additional Case 8 Results for Urban Feeder  
Figure XI.13  shows the aggregate of the non -coincident inadvertent export and 
corresponding non -coincident RMS voltage at different locations along the feeder for Case 
8 with an OLRT of 30 seconds. The same scenario but with an OLRT of 2 seconds is shown 
in Figure XI.14 . In both cases, the maximum RMS voltage is 105.5%. With an OLRT of 30 
seconds in Figure XI.13 , the capacitor bank turns off at 40 seconds when the voltage at the 
end of the feeder remain s above 105% for more than 30 seconds. With an OLRT of 2 
seconds, the capacitor bank stays on for the duration of non -coincident export.  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 173 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Figure XI. 13. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Non-Coincident Inadvertent Export Profile With 30s OLRT (Left) and 
Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles During the Same Time Period (Right)  
 
  
Figure XI. 14. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Non-Coincident Inadvertent Export Profile With 2s OLRT (Left) and 
Time Series RMS Maximum Voltage Profiles During the Same Time Period (Right)  
 
Figure XI.15  shows the thermal loading with (right) and without (left) coincident inadvertent 
export for Case 8, where the feeder is at its minimum load of 0.65 MW, while exporting 
solar PV and export -controlled energy storage are each set to 2.9 MW, or 5.8 MW total. 
With a feeder load of 0.65 MW, 2.9 MW in exporting solar PV, and no inadvertent export, 
the maximum thermal loading is 35% in conductors close to the substation (left). With 100% inadvertent export where all the non -exporting systems export simultaneously (worst -case 
scenario), the maximum thermal loading is 70% in conductors close to the substation (right).  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 174 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
Figure XI. 15. Case 8 Urban Feeder: Thermal Loading With 0% Inadvertent Export (Left) and 100% 
Coincident Inadvertent Export (Right) for Urban Feeder  
Note: The gradient bars on the right side of each chart show the percentage of the line's current ratings.  
 
Additional scenarios in Table XI.2  were simulated to examine the impact of inadvertent 
export from export -controlled storage on the urban feeder. These scenarios produced 
learnings consistent with those presented in Chapter V . 
 
Table XI. 2.  Additional Simulation Scenarios for Urban Feeder  
Case  OLRT Load 
(MW)  
Min.=0.
65 
Max.=3
.2 Exporting 
Solar PV 
(MW)  Export - 
Controlled 
Storage 
(MW)  Nameplate 
DER (MW)  Steady -
State 
Voltage 
(pu, 
RMS)  Steady -State Plus Short -
Term Voltage in RMS 
Max. RMS 
Rise: 
Coincident  Max. RMS 
Rise: 200s 
Period  
A1 10 0.65  1.32 1.32 2.64 103.7% 105%  103.9%  
A2 30 0.65  1.32 1.32 2.64 103.7% 105%  104.0% 
A3 30 0.65  2.3 2.3 4.6 104.3%  106.5%  104.8%  
A4 30 0.65  2.75 2.75 5.5 104.9%  107.4%  105.4%  
 
2. Rural Feeder  
    a. Characterization of Rural Feeder  
The examined 12.47 kV rural distribution feeder includes a load tap changer at the 
substation, three fixed capacitor banks (totaling 1220 k var), and eight line voltage 
regulators (delays = 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, and 37 seconds). The maximum allowable 
load on the feeder is 11.17 MW, while the minimum load is 5.95 MW. Figure XI .16 (left) uses 
a color scale to indicate the voltage profile of the circuit at minimum load and without 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 175 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  exporting solar PV systems. At right, feeder voltages are shown from the substation to the 
end of the feeder under simulated minimum load conditions.  
The feeder hosting capacity limit is 8.9 MW, limited by the 105% primary overvoltage limit 
that is reache d under certain tap configurations. The location of 8.95 MW of export -
enabled PV systems distributed throughout the feeder is shown in Figure XI.17 (left) with 
the feeder voltage profile at right. The associated transformer tap positions are illustrated in Table XI.3 . Meanwhile, the thermal loading under a maximum solar PV output of 8.95 
MW and minimum load of 5.95 MW is shown in Figure XI.18 . 
 
 
Figure XI. 16. Rural Feeder Voltage Profile  
 
   
Figure XI. 17. Rural Feeder: Voltage Level Map Under Maximum Solar PV Output/Minimum Load (Left) and 
RMS Maximum Voltages Along the Feeder (Right) 
 
 

 
 
XI. Appendic es 
 
 176 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Table XI. 3 . Rural Feeder: Transformer Tap Positions 
Transformer Name  Tap Position  
Substation LTC  1.01250  1 
LVR1  1.00625  1 
LVR2  1.01250  2 
LVR3  1.01875  3 
LVR4  1.02500  4 
LVR5 1.00625  2 
LVR6  1.01250  2 
LVR7  1.00625  2 
LVR8  1.00938  3 
 
 
Figure XI. 18. Rural Feeder: Line Loading With Maximum Solar PV Output Under Minimum Load Conditions  
Note:  The gradient bar on the right side of the figure shows the percentage of the line's current ratings.  
 
The aggregate inadvertent export curves used for the “rapid fire” scenario are shown in 
Figure XI.19 .  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 177 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
             
Figure XI. 19. Rural Feeder: “Rapid Fire” Inadvertent Export Profile With 10s OLRT (Left) and 30s OLRT 
(Right)  
 
b. Additional Case 5 Results for Rural Feeder  
Figure XI.20  shows the maximum thermal loading in the “rapid fire” scenario for Case 5, 
where the feeder load is minimum at 5.92 MW, exported-controlled storage is at 5.92 MW, 
and exporting solar PV is at 5.22 MW. At 25 seconds, the total inadvertent export is at its maximum (right) resulting in a maximum line loading of around 90% for brief duration (left). 
 
 
Figure XI. 20. Case 5 Rural Feeder: Line Loading at t=25s With 30s OLRT (Left) and Inadvertent Export 
Profile (Right)  
Note:  The gradient bar on the right side of the left figure shows the percentage of the line's current 
ratings.  
 

 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 178 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Additional scenarios in Table XI.4  were simulated to examine the impact of inadvertent 
export from export -controlled storage on the rural feeder. These scenarios produced 
learnings that are consistent with those presented in Chapter V . 
 
Table XI. 4 . Additional Simulation Scenarios for Rural Feeder  
Cases  OLRT  Min. 
Load 
(MW)  Exporting 
Solar PV 
(MW)  Export -
Controlled 
Storage 
(MW)   Nameplate 
DER (MW)  Steady -State 
Voltage Rise 
(pu, RMS)  Steady -State Plus 
Short -term 
Voltage in RMS  
Max RMS Rise: 
60s Period  
A1 30s 5.92  5.92  0.27  6.19 104.4%  104.7%  
A2 10s 5.92  5.92  0.9 6.82  104.4%  105.7%  
A3 30s 5.92  5.92  0.932  6.852  104.4%  105.8%  
A4 10s 5.92  5.92  0.97  6.89  104.4%  105.8%  
A5 30s 5.92  1.56 1.56 3.12 103.9%  105.8%  
A6 10s 5.92  1.67 1.67 3.34 104%  106.3%  
 
The initial transformer tap positions used in Cases 1 through 6, and A1 through A6 are 
presented in Table XI.5. 
 Table XI. 5 . Initial Transformer Tap Positions  
Transformer Name  Tap Position  
Substation LTC  1.01250  1 
LVR1  0.98750  -2 
LVR2  1.00625  1 
LVR3  0.99375  -1 
LVR4  1.01250  2 
LVR5 1.01875  6 
LVR6  0.99375  -1 
LVR7  1.02187  7 
LVR8  1.02500  8 
 
 
E. Recommended Procedure Lang uage  
This appendix compiles recommended model language revisions discussed in the Toolkit. The captured language is based on FERC SGIP, but states should easily be able to 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 179 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  incorporate any changes into their own intercon nection rules— whether they are based on 
FERC SGIP, IREC’s 2019 Model Rules, or any other model language. Language and screens 
that are not modified are not shown.  
 
I. Definition Section:  The project team recommends inclusion of the following 
definitions for terms which are necessary to clearly address review of export -
controlled systems.  
Applicability 
and 
Definitions 
of DER, 
Generating 
Facility, and 
ESS ● Energy Storage System  or ESS means a mechanical, 
electrical, or electrochemical means to store and 
release electrical energy, and its associated 
interconnection and control equipment. For the 
purposes of these Interconnection Procedures, an 
Energy Storage System can be considered part of a 
DER or a DER in whole that operates in parallel with 
the distribution system. 
● Distributed Energy Resource or DER  means the 
equipment used by an interconnection customer to 
generate and/or store electricity that operates in 
parallel with the electric distribution system. A DER may 
include but is not limited to an electric generator 
and/or Energy Storage System, a prime mover, or 
combination of technologies with the capability of 
injecting power and energy into the electric distribution 
system, which also includes the interconnection 
equipment required to safely interconnect the facility 
with the distribution system.  
Definition of 
PCS and 
Related 
Terms  ● Non-Export  or Non-Exporting  means when the DER is 
sized and designed, and operated using any of the 
methods in Section 4.10, such that the output is used 
for Host Load only and no electrical energy (except for 
any Inadve rtent Export) is transferred from the DER to 
the Distribution System.  
● Limited Export means the exporting capability of a 
DER whose Generating Capacity is limited by the use 
of any configuration or operating mode described in 
Section 4.10. 
● Power Control System  or PCS means systems or 
devices which electronically limit or control steady 
state currents to a programmable limit.  
● Host Load means electrical power, less the DER 
auxiliary load, consumed by the Customer at the 
location where the DER is connected.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 180 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  ● Inadvertent Export  means the unscheduled export of 
active power from a DER, exceeding118 a specified 
magnitude and for a limited duration, generally due to 
fluctuations in load -following behavior.  
Definition of 
Nameplate 
Rating and 
Export 
Capacity  ● Export Capacity  means the amount of power that can 
be transferred from the DER to the Distribution System. 
Export Capacity is either the Nameplate Rating, or a 
lower amount if limited using an acceptable means 
identified in Section 4.10. 
● Nameplate Rating  means the sum to tal of maximum 
rated power output of all of a DER’s constituent 
generating units and/or ESS as identified on the 
manufacturer nameplate, regardless of whether it is 
limited by any approved means.  
Definitions 
of Operating 
Profile and 
Operating 
Schedule  ● Operating Profile  means the manner in which the 
distributed energy resource is designed to be 
operated, based on the generating prime mover and 
operational characteristics. The Operating Profile 
includes any limitations set on power imported or 
exported at the Point of Interconnection and the 
resource characteristics, e.g., solar output profile. 
● Operating Schedule  means the time of year, time of 
month, and hours of the day designated in the 
Interconnection Application for the import or export of 
power 
 
  
 
118 IEEE P1547.9 uses “beyond” rather than “exceeding.” 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 181 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   
II. Reference Point of Applicability (RPA):  The project team recommends that 
review of RPA designation is clearly defined in the rule as guided by IEEE 
1547-2018. SGIP is used as the reference model and the changes to SGIP are 
shown in legal blackline, but these changes should be relatively easy to  
translate to most state interconnection procedures.  
2.2 (New)  Reference Point of Applicability Review  
 
The following process will occur concurrently with the Initial 
Review process in section 2.3. Within five Business Days after 
the Distribution Provider119 notifies the Interconnection 
Customer that the Interconnection Request is complete, the 
Distribution Provider shall review the Reference Point of 
Applicability denoted by the Interconnection Customer and 
determine if it is appropriate.  
 
2.2.1 If it is determined that the Reference Point of Applicability 
is appropriate the Distribution Provider will notify the 
Interconnection Customer when it provides Initial Review 
results and proceed according to sections 2.3.2 to 2.3.4 
below.  
 
2.2.2 If the Distribution Provider determines the Reference 
Point of Applicability is inappropriate, the Distribution Provider 
will notify the Interconnection Customer in writing, including an 
explanation as to why it requires correction. The 
Interconnection  Customer shall resubmit the Interconnection 
Request with the corrected Reference Point of Applicability 
within five Business Days. During this time the Distribution 
Provider will proceed with Initial Review in 2.3. The 
Distribution Provider shall review t he revised Interconnection 
Request within five Business Days to determine if the revised 
Reference Point of Applicability has been appropriately 
denoted. If correct, the Distribution Provider will proceed 
according to sections 2.3.2 to 2.3.4. If the Interconnection 
Customer does not provide the appropriate Reference Point of 
Applicability or a request for an extension of time within the 
deadline, the Interconnection Request will be deemed 
withdrawn. 
 
 
119 SGIP inc ludes the term “Transmission Provider” in place of “Distribution Provider” in its model interconnection 
procedure language because it was adopted as a pro forma for transmission providers under FERC jurisdiction. 
However, states typically change it to “Dis tribution Provider” or another term when applicable.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 182 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  [Note: Initial Review is renumbered to 2.3]  
 
3.2.2  The purpose of the scoping meeting is to discuss the 
Interconnection Request , the Reference Point of Applicability, 
and review existing studies relevant to the Interconnection 
Request.  
 
Attachment 
A to 
Attachments 
6 & 7 
(Feasibility 
and System 
Impact 
Stud y 
Agreement) The feasibility study will be based upon the information set 
forth in the Interconnection Request and agreed upon in the 
scoping meeting held on _____________________:  
1) Designation of Point of Interconnection and configuration to 
be studied.  
2) Designation of alternative Points of Interconnection and 
configuration.  
3) Designation of the Reference Point of Applicability location, 
including the location for the detection of abnormal voltage, 
faults and open -phase conditions. 
 
1) and through 23) are to be completed by the Interconnection 
Customer. Other assumptions (listed below) are to be 
provided by the Interconnection Customer and the Distribution 
Provider . 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 183 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  III. Export Control Section:  The project team recommends adoption of the 
following section to clearly define acceptable means of export controls. The 
section numbers are provided in the format of the FERC SGIP, but can be 
altered according to state specific preferences. Note that the  items listed 
below with device numbers are commonly referred to as relays.  
4.10 Export Controls  
4.10.2  If a DER uses any configuration or operating mode in 
subsection 4.10.4) to limit the export of electrical power 
across the Point of I nterconnection, then the Export 
Capacity shall be only the amount capable of being 
exported (not including any Inadverten t Export). To 
prevent impacts on system safety and reliability, any 
Inadvertent Export from a DER must comply with the 
limits identified in this Section. The Export Capacity 
specified by the interconnection customer in the 
application will subsequently be included as a limitation 
in the interconnection agreement.  
4.10.3  An Application proposing to use a configuration or 
operating mode to limit the export of electrical power 
across the Point of I nterconnection shall include 
proposed control and/or protection settings.  
4.10.4  Acceptable Export Control Methods  
 4.10.4.1  Export Control Methods for Non -Exporting DER  
4.10.4.1.1  Reverse Power Protection (Device 32R)  
 
To limit export of power across the P oint of 
Interconnection, a reverse power protective function is 
implemented using a utility grade protective relay. The 
default setting for this protective function shall be 0.1% 
(export) of the service transformer's nominal base 
Nameplate Rating, with a maximum 2.0 second time 
delay to limit Ina dvertent Export.  
4.10.4.1.2  Minimum Power Protection (Device 32F)  
 
To limit export of power across the P oint of 
Interconnection, a minimum import protective function is 
implemented utilizing a utility grade protective relay. The 
default setting for this protective function shall be 5% 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 184 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  (import) of the DER’s  total Nameplate Rating , with a 
maximum 2.0 second time delay to limit Inadvertent 
Export.  
 Relative Distributed Energy Resource Rating  
 
This option requires the DER's Nameplate Rating to be 
so small in comparison to its host facility's minimum load 
that the use of additional protective functions is not 
required to ensure that power will not be exported to the 
electric distribution system. This option requires the 
DER's Nameplate Rating  to be no greater than 50% of 
the interconnection customer's verifiable minimum host 
load during relevant hours over the past 12 months. This 
option is not available for interconnections to area 
networks or spot networks.  
 4.10.4.2  Export Control Methods for Limited Export DER  
4.10.4.2.1  Directional Power Protection (Device 32)  
 
To limit export of power across the P oint of 
Interconnection, a directional power protective function 
is implemented using a utility grade protective relay. The 
default s etting for this protective function shall be the 
Export Capacity value, with a maximum 2.0 second time 
delay to limit Inadvertent Export.  
4.10.4.2.2  Configured Power Rating  
 
A reduced output power rating utilizing the power rating 
configuration setting may be used to ensure the DER 
does not generate power beyond a certain value lower 
than the Nameplate Rating . The configuration setting 
corresponds to the active or apparent pow er ratings in 
Table 28 of IEEE Std 1547-2018, as described in 
subclause 10.4. A local DER communication interface is 
not required to utilize the configuration setting as long as 
it can be set by other means. The reduced power rating 
may be indicated by means of a Nameplate Rating 
replacement, a supplemental adhesive Nameplate 
Rating tag to indicate the reduced Nameplate Rating, or 
a signed attestation from the customer confirming the 
reduced capacity . 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 185 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage   4.10.4.3  Export Control Methods for Non-Exporting DER or 
Limited Export DER  
4.10.4.3.1  Certified Power Control Systems  
 
DER may use certified power control systems to limit 
export. DER utilizing this option must use a power control 
system and inverter certified per UL 1741 by a nationally 
recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) with a maximum 
open loop response time of no more than 30 seconds to 
limit Inadvertent Export. NRTL testing to the UL P ower 
Control System Certification Requirement Decision shall 
be accepted until similar test procedures for power 
control systems are included in a standard. This option is 
not available for interconnections to area networks or 
spot networks.  
4.10.4.3.2  Agreed -Upon Means  
 
DER may be designed with other control systems and/or 
protective functions to limit export and Inadvertent 
Export if mutual agreement is reached with the 
Distribution Provider. The limits may be based on 
technical limitations of the interconnection custome r's 
equipment or the electric distribution system equipment. 
To ensure Inadvertent Export remains within mutually 
agreed-upon limits, the interconnection customer may 
use an uncertified power control system, an internal 
transfer relay, energy management system, or other 
customer facility hardware or software if approved by the 
Distribution Provider.  
 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 186 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IV. Eligibility and Screens:  The project team recommends the following revisions 
and additions to the standard SGIP screens. SGIP is used as the reference 
model and the changes to SGIP are shown in legal blackline, but these 
changes should be relatively easy to translate to most stat e interconnection 
procedures.  
Simplified/
Expedited/  
Level 1  Eligibility for Simplified/Expedited/Level 1 Screening Process  
 
For simplified/expedited/Level 1 processes, allow projects with a 
Nameplate Rating of up to 50 kW and an Export Capacity of up 
to 25 kW.  
2.1 Applicability  
 
The Fast Track Process is available to an Interconnection 
Customer proposing to interconnect its DER  Small Generating 
Facility with the Transmission Provider's Distribution System if 
the DER Small Generating Facility’s Export  cCapacity does not 
exceed the size limits identified in the table below. Small 
Generating Facilities below these limits are eligible for Fast 
Track review. However, Fast Track eligibility is distinct from 
the Fast Track Process itself, and eligibility does not imply or 
indicate that a Small Generating Facility DER will pass the Fast 
Track screens in section 2.2.1 below or the Supplemental 
Review screens in section 2.4.4 below. 
Fast Track eligibility is determined based upon the generator 
DER type, th e Export Capacity  size of the generator DER, 
voltage of the line and the location of and the type of line at 
the Point of Interconnection. All Small Generating Facilities 
DER connecting to lines greater than 69 kilovolt s (kV) are 
ineligible for the Fast Track Process regardless of Export 
Capacity size. All synchronous and induction machines must 
have an Export Capacity of be no larger than  2 MW or less  to 
be eligible for the F ast Track Process, regardless of location. 
For certified inverter- based systems, the size limit varies 
according to the voltage of the line at the proposed Point of 
Interconnection. Certified inverter- based Small Generating 
Facilities DER located within 2.5 electrical circuit miles of a 
substation and on a mainline (as defined in the table below) 
are eligible for the Fast Track Process under the higher 
thresholds according to the table below. In addition to the 
size threshold, the Interconnection Customer's proposed DER 
Small Generating Facility must meet the codes, standards, 
and certification requirements of Attachments 3 and 4 of 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 187 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  these procedures, or the Transmission Distribution  Provider 
has to have reviewed the design or tested the proposed DER  
Small Ge nerating Facility  and be is satisfied that it is safe to 
operate.  
Fast Track Eligibility for Inverter -Based Systems  
Line Voltage  Export Capacity of  DER 
Eligible for Fast  Track 
Eligibility  Regardless of 
Location  Export Capacity of DER  Eligible 
for Fast Track  Eligibility  on a 
Mainline  and ≤ 2.5 Electrical 
Circuit Miles from Substation  
< 5 kV   ≤ 500 kW  ≤ 500 kW  
≤ 5 kV and < 15 kV  ≤ 2 MW  ≤ 3 MW  
≤ 15 kV and < 30 kV  ≤ 3 MW  ≤ 4 MW  
≤ 30 kV and ≤ 69 kV  ≤ 4 MW  ≤ 5 MW  
2.2.1.2  For interconnection of a proposed DER Small Generating 
Facility to a radial distribution circuit, the aggregated Export 
Capacity generation , including the proposed DER Small 
Generating Facility, on the circuit shall not exceed 15 % of the 
line section annual peak load as most recently measured at the 
substation. A line section is that portion of a Transmission 
Distribution  Provider’s electric system connected to a customer 
bounded by automatic sectionalizing devices or the end of the 
distribution line.  
2.2.1.3  For interconnection of a proposed DER that can introduce 
Inadvertent Export, where the Nameplate Rating minus the 
Export Capacity is greater than 250 kW, the following 
Inadvertent Export screen is required. With a power change 
equal to the Nameplate Rating minus the Export Capacity, the 
change in voltage at the point on the medium voltage (primary) 
level nearest the Point of Interconnection      does not exceed 
3%. Voltage change will be estimated applying the following 
formula:  
Formula  (RSOURCE  ×∆𝑷𝑷) – (XSOURCE  × ∆𝑸𝑸) 
 
V2 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 188 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Where:  
∆𝑷𝑷 = (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × PF, 
∆𝑸𝑸= (DER apparent power Nameplate Rating – Export Capacity) × �(𝟏𝟏−𝑷𝑷𝑷𝑷𝟐𝟐), 
RSOURCE  is the grid resistance, X SOURCE  is the grid reactance,  
V is the grid voltage , PF is the power factor 
 
2.2.1. 34 For interconnection of a proposed DER Small Generating Facility  
to the load side of spot network protectors, the proposed DER 
Small Generating Facility must utilize an inverter-based 
equipment package and, the proposed DER’s Nameplate Rating,  
together with  the aggregated Nameplate Rating  of other inverter-
based generation, shall not exceed the smaller of 5 % of a spot 
network's maximum load or 50 kW.120 
2.2.1. 45 The fault current of the  proposed DER Small Generating Facility , 
in aggregation with the fault current  of other DER generation  on 
the distribution circuit, shall not contribute more than 10 % to the 
distribution circuit's maximum fault current at the point on the 
high voltage (primary) level nearest the proposed point  of change 
of ownership.  
2.2.1. 56 The fault current of the  proposed DER Small Generating Facility , 
in aggregate with fault current of other generation DER on the 
distribution circuit, shall not cause any distribution protective 
devices and equipment (including, but not limited to, substation 
breakers, fuse cutouts, and line reclosers), or Interconnection 
Customer equipment on the system to exceed 87.5 % of the short 
circuit interrupting capability; nor shall the interconnection be 
proposed f or a circuit that already exceeds 87.5 % of the short 
circuit interrupting capability.  
2.2.1. 78 If the proposed DER Small Generating Facility  is to be interconnected 
on a single -phase shared secondary, the aggregate Export Capacity 
generation capacity on the shared secondary, including the 
proposed DER Small Generating Facility, shall not exceed:  
▪ Some states use “20 kW”  
▪ Some states use “65 % of the transformer nameplate 
power rating.”  
 
120 A spot network is a type of distribution system found within modern commercial buildings to provide high reliability 
of service to a single customer. (Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers, 11th e dition, Donald Fink, McGraw Hill 
Book Company) 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 189 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2.2.1. 910 The Nameplate Rating of the  DER Small Generating Facility , in 
aggregate with the Nameplate Rating of other generation DER 
interconnected to the distribution transmission  side of a 
substation transformer feeding the circuit where the Small 
Generating Facility DER  proposes to interconnect shall n ot 
exceed 10 MW in an area where there are known, or posted, 
transient stability limitations to generating units located in the 
general electrical vicinity (e.g., three or four transmission busses 
from the Point of Interconnection).  
 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 190 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  V. Supplemental Review Screens:  The project team recommends the following 
revisions and additions to the standard SGIP screens. SGIP is used as the 
reference model and the changes to SGIP are shown in legal blackline, but 
these changes should be relatively ea sy to translate to most state 
interconnection procedures.  
2.4 Supplemental Review  
2.4.4.1  Minimum Load Screen  
 
Where 12 months of line section minimum load data (including 
onsite load but not station service load served by the proposed 
DER Small Generating Facility)  are available, can be calculated, 
can be estimated from existing data, or determined from a power 
flow model, the aggregate Export Capacity Generating Facility 
capacity on the line section is less than 100% of the minimum load 
for all line sections bounde d by automatic sectionalizing devices 
upstream of the proposed DER Small Generating Facility. If 
minimum load data is not available, or cannot be calculated, 
estimated or determined, the Transmission Distribution  Provider 
shall include the reason(s) that i t is unable to calculate, estimate or 
determine minimum load in its supplemental review results 
notification under section 2.4.4.  
 
2.4.4.1.1  The type of generation used by the proposed Small 
Generating Facility DER will be taken into account 
when calculating, estimating, or determining circuit 
or line section minimum load relevant for the 
application of screen 2.4.4.1. Solar photovoltaic (PV) 
generation systems with no battery storage use 
daytime minimum load (i.e. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. for 
fixed panel systems and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. for PV 
systems utilizing tracking systems), while all other 
generation uses absolute minimum load. 
2.4.4.1.2  When this screen is being applied to a Small 
Generating Facility DER that serves some station 
service load, only the net injection into the 
Transmission Provider’s electric system will be 
considered as part of the aggregate generation. 
2.4.4.1.3  Transmission Distribution  Provider will not consider 
as part of the aggregate Export Capacity 
generation for purposes of this screen generating 
facility capacity DER Export Capacity known to be 
already reflected in the minimum load data.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 191 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  2.4.4.2   Voltage and Power Quality Screen  
 
In aggregate with existing generation on the line section: (1) the 
voltage regulation on the line section can be maintained in 
compliance with relevant requirements under all system conditions; 
(2) the voltage fluctuation is within acceptable limits as def ined by 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Standard 
1453, or utility practice similar to IEEE Standard 1453; and (3) the 
harmonic levels meet IEEE Standard 519 limits. If the DER limits 
export pursuant to Section 4.10, the Export Capa city must be 
included in any analysis including power flow simulations.  
2.4.4.3  Safety and Reliability Screen  
 
The location of the proposed Small Generating Facility DER and 
the aggregate Export Capacity generation capacity on the line 
section do not create impacts to safety or reliability that cannot 
be adequately addressed without application of the Study 
Process. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section 4.10, the 
Export Capacity must be included in any analysis including 
power flow simulations, except when assessing fault current 
contribution. To assess fault current contribution, the analysis 
must use the rated fault current; for example, the Customer may 
provide manufacturer test data (pursuant  to the fault current  test 
described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 5.18) showing that the fault 
current is independent of the  Nameplate Rating.  The 
Transmission Distribution  Provider shall give due consideration to 
the following and other factors in determining potential impacts 
to safety and reliability in applying this screen. 
 
2.4.4.3.1  Whether the line section has significant minimum 
loading levels dominated by a small number of 
customers (e.g., several large commercial 
customers).  
2.4.4.3.2  Whether the loading along the line section is 
uniform or even.  
2.4.4.3.3  Whether the proposed Small Generating Facility 
DER is located in close proximity to the substation 
(i.e., less than 2.5 electrical circuit miles), and 
whether the line section from the substation to the 
Point of I nterconnection is a Mainline rated for 
normal and emergency ampacity.  
2.4.4.3.4  Whether the proposed DER Small Generating 
Facility  incorporates a time delay function to 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 192 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  prevent reconnection of the generator to the 
system until system voltage and frequency are 
within normal limits for a prescribed time.  
2.4.4.3.5  Whether operational flexibility is reduced by the 
proposed DER Small Generating Facility, such that 
transfer of the line section(s) of the DER Small 
Generating Facility to a neighboring distributio n 
circuit/substation may trigger overloads or voltage 
issues. 
2.4.4.3.6         Whether the proposed DER Small Generating 
Facility employs equipment or systems certified by 
a recognized standards organization to address 
technical issues such as, but not limited to, 
islanding, reverse power flow, or voltage quality . 
 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 193 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  VI. System Impact Study:  The project team recommends the following revisions 
and additions to the standard SGIP full study. SGIP is used as the reference 
model and the changes to SGIP are shown in legal blackline, but these 
changes should be relatively easy to translate to most state interconnection 
procedures.  
3.4.1  System Impact Study  
 
A system impact study shall identify and detail the electric system 
impacts that would result if the proposed Small Generating Facility 
DER were interconnected without project modifications or electric 
system modifications, focusing on the adverse system impacts 
identified in the feasibility study, or to study potential impacts, 
including but not limited to those identified in the scoping meeting. 
A system impact study shall evaluate the impact of the proposed 
interconnection on the reliability of the electric system.  
 
The system impact study must take into account the proposed 
DER's design and operating characteristics, including but not 
limited to the applicant's proposed Operating Profile  (where 
verifiable) , and study the project according to how the project is 
proposed to be operated. If the DER limits export pursuant to 
Section 4.10, the system impact study must use Export Capacity 
instead of the Nameplate Rating, except when  assessing fault 
current contribution. To assess fault current contribution, the 
system impact study must use the rated fault current; for example, 
the Customer may provide manufacturer test data (pursuant the 
fault current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 5.18) 
showing that the fault current is independent of the Nameplate 
Rating.  
 
5.0 System Impact Study Agreement  
 
A system impact study shall consist of a short circuit analysis, a 
stability analysis, a power flow analysis, voltage drop and flicker 
studies, protection and set point coordination studies, and 
grounding reviews, as necessary. A system impact study shall 
state the assumptions upon which it is based, state the results of 
the analyses, and provide the requirement or potential 
impediments to providing the requested interconnection service, 
including a preliminary indication of the cost and length of time 
that would be necessary to correct any problems identified in 
those analyses and implement the interconnection. The system 
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 194 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  impact study shall take into account the proposed DER's design 
and operating characteristics, including but not limited to the 
applicant' s proposed Operating Profile  (where verifiable) , and 
study the project according to how the project is proposed to be 
operated. If the DER limits export pursuant to Section 4.10, the 
system impact study shall use Export Capacity instead of the 
Nameplate Ra ting, except when assessing fault current 
contribution. To assess fault current contribution, the system 
impact study shall use the rated  fault current; for example, the 
Customer may provide manufacturer test data (pursuant the fault 
current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 clause 5.18) showing 
that the fault current is independent of the Nameplate Rating. A 
system impact study shall provide a list of facilities that are 
required as a result of the Interconnection Request and non -
binding good faith estimates of cost responsibility and time to 
construct.  
4.0 Feasibility Study Agreement  
 
The feasibility study shall be based on the technical information 
provided by the Interconnection Customer in the Interconnection 
Request, including the proposed DER's design characteristics, 
operating characteristics, and Operating Profile  (where verifiable) , 
as may be modified as the result of the scoping meeting. If the 
DER limits export pursuant to Section 4.10, the feasibility study 
must use Export Capacity instead of the Nameplate Rating, except 
when assessing fault current contribution. To assess fault current 
contribution, the system impact study must use the rated fault 
current; for example, the Customer may provide manufacturer test 
data (pursuant the fault current test described in IEEE 1547.1 -2020 
clause 5.18) showing that the fault curre nt is independent of the 
Nameplate Rating. The Transmission  Distribution Provider 
reserves the right to request additional technical information from 
the Interconnection Customer as may reasonably become 
necessary consistent with Good Utility Practice during the course 
of the feasibility study and as designated in accordance with the 
standard Small Generator Interconnection Procedures. If the 
Interconnection Customer modifies its Interconnection Request, 
the time to complete the feasibility study may be ext ended by 
agreement of the Parties.  
 
 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 195 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  VII. Provision of useful information with screen results and allowance of design 
changes:  The project team recommends adding the following language to 
interconnection procedures to specify the information that should be 
provided to customers regarding initial review or supplemental review. SGIP 
is used as the reference model and the changes to  SGIP are shown in legal 
blackline, but these changes should be relatively easy to translate to most 
state interconnection procedures. Additionally, a provision to allow for one -
time modification within system impact study is recommended.  
2.2 Initial Review  
 
Within 15 Business Days after the Distribution Provider notifies the 
Interconnection Customer it has received a complete 
Interconnection Request, the Distribution Provider shall perform an 
initial review using the screens set forth below, shall notify the 
Interconnection Customer of the results, and include with the 
notification copies of the analysis and data underlying the 
Distribution Provider's determinations under the screens. If one or 
more screens are not passed, the Distribution Provider shall 
provide, in writing, the specific screens that the Interconnection 
Request failed, including the technical reason for failure. The 
Distribution Provider shall provide information and detail about 
the specific system threshold or limitation causing the 
Interconnection Request to fail the screen.  
2.4.5  If the proposed interconnection passes the supplemental screens in 
sections 2.4.4.1, 2.4.4.2, and 2.4.4.3 above, the Interconnection 
Request shall be approved and the Transmission Distribution 
Provider will provide the Interconnection Customer with an 
executable interconnection agreement within the timeframes 
established in sections 2.4.5.1 and 2.4.5.2 below. If the proposed 
interconnection fails any of the supplemental review screens the 
Distri bution Provider shall specify which screens the application 
failed, including the technical reason for failure, and the data and the 
analysis supporting the supplemental review. The Distribution 
Provider shall provide information and detail about the speci fic 
system threshold or limitation causing the Interconnection Request to 
fail the screen. If the Interconnection Customer chooses to amend 
the Interconnection Request to address the specific failed screens, 
the Interconnection Customer must submit an upda ted 
Interconnection Request demonstrating the redesign within ten 
Business Days after receiving the screen results. The redesign shall 
only include changes to address the screen failures or identified 
upgrades (which could include, for example, the additio n of DC -
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 196 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  coupled or AC -coupled energy storage). Increases in Export 
Capacity or changes in Point of Interconnection are not permitted 
and shall require the Interconnection Request to be withdrawn and 
resubmitted. The Distribution Provider will evaluate whet her the 
redesign addresses the screen failure and notify the Interconnection 
Customer of the results of this evaluation within ten Business Days. 
This redesign option to mitigate impacts shall only be available one 
time during the Supplemental Review proce ss. If and  the 
Interconnection Customer does not amend or withdraw its 
Interconnection Request, it shall continue to be evaluated under the 
section 3 Study Process consistent with section 2.4.5.3 below.  
3.4.10 
(New)  A one -time modification of the Intercon nection Request is allowed 
as a result of information from the system impact study report. If 
the Interconnection Customer chooses to amend the 
Interconnection Request to address the specific system impacts, 
the Interconnection Customer must submit an updated 
Interconnection Request demonstrating the redesign within fifteen 
Business Days after receiving the system impact study results 
from the Distribution Provider under section 3.5.1. The redesign 
shall only include changes designed to address the specific 
system impacts or identified upgrades (which could include, for 
example, the addition of DC -coupled or AC -coupled energy 
storage). This redesign option to mitigate impacts shall only be 
available one time during the Study Process. Increases in Export 
Capa city or changes in Point of Interconnection are not permitted 
and shall require the Interconnection Request to be withdrawn 
and resubmitted.  
 
The Distribution Provider shall notify the Interconnecting Customer 
within ten Business Days of receipt of the mo dified Interconnection 
Request if any additional information is needed. If additional 
information is needed or document corrections are required, the 
Interconnection Customer shall provide the required information or 
corrections within ten Business Days from receipt of the Distribution 
Provider notice.  
 
The actual costs to Distribution Provider for any necessary restudies 
as a result of a modification described above shall be paid by the 
Interconnection Customer. Such restudies should be limited to the 
impa cts of the modification and shall be billed to the Interconnection 
Customer at cost and not for work previously completed. The 
Distribution Provider shall use reasonable efforts to limit the scope of 
such restudies to what is necessary. The revised impact study shall 
be completed within fifteen business days.  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 197 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  F. Recommended Language to Use in Interconnection Application 
Forms  
This appendix compiles recommended model language revisions discussed in the Toolkit. 
States should easily be able to incorporate this language into their own applications forms (or portals used by utilities).  
 
VIII. UL 1741 and PCS related:  The project team recommends the application 
forms ask whether or not a PCS is included in the DER system design. Note 
the blank __ section  is a fill in response from the applicant.  
Does the DER include a Power Control System? [yes / no]  
(If yes, indicate the Power Control System equipment and connections on the 
one-line diagram)  
 
What is the PCS maximum open loop response time? _____  
What is the PCS average open loop response time? _____  
 
When grid- connected, will the PCS employ any of the following? [Select all that 
apply]  
 Unrestricted mode  
 Export only mode  
 Import only mode  
 No exchange mode  
 Export limiting from all sources  
 Export li miting from ESS  
 Import limiting to ESS  
 
  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 198 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  IX. IEEE 1547 -2018 related:  The project team recommends application forms use 
the language below to streamline the review of IEEE 1547-2018 capabilities 
(such as RPA designation, execution of mode of parameter changes, 
prioritization of DER response).  
Where is the desired RPA location? [Check one]  
 PoC 
 PCC  
 Another point between PoC and PCC (must be denoted in the one -
line diagram)  
 Different RPAs for different DER units (must be denoted in the one-
line diagram)  
Is the RPA location the same as above for detection of abnormal voltage, faults 
and open -phase conditions?  
 Yes 
 No (detection location must be denoted in the one -line diagram)  
Why does this DER fit the chosen RPA? [Check all that apply]  
 Zero -sequence continuity between PCC and PoC is maintained 
 The DER aggregate Nameplate Rating is less than 500 kVA  
 Annual average load demand is greater than 10% of the aggregate 
DER Nameplate Rating, and it is not capable of, or is prevented 
from, exporting more than 500 kVA for longer than 30 seconds.  
Does the DER utilize export limiting for the Limit Maximum Active Power function 
(Yes/No)  
Which equipment(s) achieves this functionality?  
Is the equipment certified for export limiting (PCS, or “plant controller” via 1547.1 
test 5.13) ? 
In addition to grid -connected mode, will the DER operate as an intentional local 
EPS island (also known as “microgrid” or “standby mode”)?  
When grid -connected, does the DER employ any of the following? [Select all that 
apply]  
 Scheduled Operation  
 Export limiting or control  
  Does the export limiting method limit on the basis of kVA or 
kW? 
 Import limiting or control 
  Does the import limiting method limit on the basis of kVA or 
kW? 
 Active or reactive power functions not specified in IEEE 1547 (such 
as the Set Active Power function)  
 
 
XI. Appendices  
 
 199 Toolkit & Guidance for the Interconnection of Energy Storage & Solar -Plus-Storage  Is the DER, or part of the DER, designated as emergency, legally required, or 
critical facility backup power? [yes / no]  
(If yes, denote the emergency generators and applicable portions of the DER in 
the submitted one -line diagram)  
How is the voltage -active power function implemented? [Check one]  
 All DER units follow the same functional settings (same per-unit 
curve regardless of individual unit Nameplate Rating)  
 Different DER units follow different functional settings (different per -
unit curves for individual unit Nameplate Ratings)  
  Denote in one -line diagram the voltage -active power settings 
of each DER unit  
 A plant controller or other supplemental DER device manages 
output of the entire system (one per -unit curve based on total 
system Nameplate Rating)  
  If selected, is the managing device certified for the voltage -
active power function? [yes / no]  
 Export limit is utilized (power control system manages export based 
on total system Nameplate Rating)  
  If selected, is the managing device certified for the voltage -
active power function? [yes / no]  
 
 
 
