MERYL NASS
ELLSWORTH
LD 1547
Testimony in favor of LD 1547
Dear Senator Baldacci, Representative Meyer and members of the Health and Human 
Services Committee:
There are significant concerns about the safety of COVID vaccines, as I imagine you 
are aware.  Furthermore, as CDC Director Walensky has said since July 30, 2021, the 
vaccines do not prevent transmission.   Therefore, there is no scientific or medical 
reason to mandate them.  Mandates for an EUA (unlicensed) vaccine that does not 
protect anyone else are a logical fallacy.  They will probably also turn out to be 
illegal, as the FDA acting Commissioner is reputed to have said. 
Last week, the FDA withdrew the original EUA for all earlier monovalent COVID 
vaccines, and the CDC recommended that only bivalent COVID vaccines be used 
from now on.  The vaccine is authorized.  It is NOT licensed.  All bivalent vaccines, 
which is all anyone will be offered now, are EXPERIMENTAL.    They are offered 
under the PREP Act, for which there is no manufacturer liability.
Bivalent COVID vaccines contain 2 different messenger RNAs that code for both the 
original Wuhan strain virus and for an Omicron variant that was present in early 2022,
in equal proportions.  It is difficult to say how effective or safe this new bivalent 
vaccine is, since it was only tested in mice before being rolled out last September.  
Subsequently only 489 people of all ages received it in clinical trials,  much less than 
the 29,000 in whom the Pfizer covid vaccines were originally tested. 
Last week, Northern Light healthcare lifted its mask mandate, noting there were only 
75 people in Maine hospitals with COVID, the lowest level of COVID 
hospitalizations in 20 months.  It is great news that COVID has mutated to a much 
milder strain, and almost everyone now has some immunity to it.  It is no longer a 
dangerous pandemic but instead, a relatively mild endemic illness, which may be with
us for some time.  Four other coronaviruses are endemic to humans and generally 
only cause colds.
FDA has suggested it may recommend COVID vaccines for annual boosters, like flu 
shots.  FDA has also suggested it may continue to roll out new versions without 
human testing, as it does for flu shots, but not for a single other licensed vaccine.
Let me repeat that.  Flu shots have been available for many decades and their 
long-term side effects are well known.  On that basis, each year's formulation is 
grandfathered in. 
Grandfathering in a yearly change to a COVID shot would be disingenuous as well as 
dangerous, since there is a great deal about COVID vaccines' side effects that is not 
known, especially regarding the bivalent vaccine, and what we do know is worrying.
Even Paul Offit, M.D., a member of the FDA's vaccine advisory committee and 
prominent vaccine inventor, voted against authorizing the bivalent vaccine and has 
spoken out widely against its value.   
Here is what the FDA and Pfizer say about this vaccine in the package insert, 
verbatim:
"WHAT ARE THE RISKS OF PFIZER-BIONTECH COVID-19 VACCINE, 
BIVALENT?
There is a remote chance that the vaccine could cause a severe allergic reaction. A
severe allergic reaction would usually occur within a few minutes to one hour after
getting a dose. For this reason, the vaccination provider may ask you or your child to
stay at the place where you or your child received the vaccine for monitoring after
vaccination. Signs of a severe allergic reaction can include:
• Difficulty breathing
• Swelling of the face and throat
• A fast heartbeat 
• A bad rash all over the body 
• Dizziness and weakness 
Myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the
lining outside the heart) have occurred in some people who have received the
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent, the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 
Vaccine,
or COMIRNATY (COVID-19 Vaccine, mRNA), more commonly in adolescent 
males and
adult males under 40 years of age than among females and older males. In most of
these people, symptoms began within a few days following vaccination. The chance 
of
having this occur is very low. You should seek medical attention right away if you or
your child have any of the following symptoms after receiving the vaccine, 
particularly
during the 2 weeks after you or your child receives a dose of either vaccine:
• Chest pain
• Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
• Feelings of having a fast-beating, fluttering, or pounding heart
Additional symptoms, particularly in children, may include:
• Fainting
• Unusual and persistent irritability
• Unusual and persistent poor feeding
• Unusual and persistent fatigue or lack of energy
• Persistent vomiting
• Persistent pain in the abdomen
• Unusual and persistent cool, pale skin
Side effects that have been reported with Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, 
Bivalent,
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, or COMIRNATY (COVID-19 Vaccine, 
mRNA)
include:
• Severe allergic reactions
• Non-severe allergic reactions such as rash, itching, hives, or swelling of the face
• Myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle)
• Pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart)
• Injection site pain/tenderness
• Tiredness
• Headache
• Muscle pain
• Chills
• Joint pain
• Fever
• Injection site swelling
• Injection site redness
• Nausea
• Feeling unwell
• Swollen lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy)
• Decreased appetite
• Diarrhea
• Vomiting
• Arm pain
• Fainting in association with injection of the vaccine
• Dizziness
• Irritability
These may not be all the possible side effects. Serious and unexpected side effects
may occur. The possible side effects are still being studied."
Of approximately 10,000 people who have reported severe side effects from COVID 
vaccines and asked the federal DHHS for compensation under the countermeasures 
Injury Compensation Program, only 3 have so far received benefits,  averaging only 
$1500 per person!
The FDA and Pfizer tell us in the package insert that mandates cannot be imposed for 
this EUA (experimental) product--that recipients "have the option to refuse" -- due to 
the Nuremberg Code and federal law.  I have a screenshot of this section for you 
below.
"WHAT IF I DECIDE NOT TO GET OR NOT TO HAVE MY CHILD GET THE
PFIZER-BIONTECH COVID-19 VACCINE, BIVALENT?
Under the EUA, there is an option to accept or refuse receiving this vaccine." 
  
Given all this information, it is incumbent upon this Legislature to correct past 
mistakes and end all possibility of mandates in the state of Maine for this and any 
other experimental vaccine or drug.
NOTE:  All my 10 footnotes have disappeared 
Very seriously yours,
Meryl Nass, M.D.
Ellsworth, Maine 
207 522-5229
merylnass@gmail.com

