My name is Brian Roy from Bowdoin 
It is a privilege to share with you my thoughts on LD 51. “An act to 
restore the religious and philosophical exemptions to immunization 
requirements.”  
Throughout human history, and every so often, the apparatus of evil 
seems to gain traction on the face of the earth. The evil today is the 
same as the past. And as Winston Churchill noted, “the further you look 
back into history, the further ahead you will see. So, we know that God 
wins, and the judge is a fair one. And every time truth throws a rock in 
the pond, it sends tiny ripples, converging to waves. And the waves 
become bigger, and the waves can destroy. But this wave must be 
peaceful, and it must be in love. 
So as for LD 51 I say this…it is impossible for man or governments to 
grant what is already ours. Likewise, it is also impossible that they can 
take what cannot be taken. Because no act of congress, and no stroke 
of a pen can extract one’s compliance, and to make one choose sin. 
Because conviction and faith are found deep in the heart. Ancient 
words can remind us to guard this above all. So, we all share some 
blame, and we all play a part. But please let us forgive, and let justice 
be done. Let us take of the mask, and let us no more pretend. Let us 
love one another, and let us all find some peace. Because we cannot 
move forward, if were lost where we’re at. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sadly, the conviction of faith has perhaps gone out of favor, and there 
are just too many hearts that are empty today. Because if those hearts 
were full, and because if those hearts were truthful, they would make 
better choices, and they would stand for the truth. And 
 
 
They would have also never mandated medical experiments to begin 
with…And further still, they would not use mass deception along the 
way. 
And the willful ignorance can clearly be seen when countless, and 
respectable truth tellers have shouted and warned us from the start. 
likewise, it should be noted, that the CDC has spun deceptions of their 
own. Mass media has also complied, and big tech 
I will not speculate on precisely what will be said about this atrocity, 
but I believe wholeheartedly that this genocide will be written about 
from the hands of patriots who have stared down the wickedness of 
this evil plan, all the while never blinking, and never giving up. The 
thugs that have foisted this agenda on the world have also done so in 
collaboration with legacy media, big tech, and the money manipulators 
who are desperately trying to steer their great reset agenda. To them I 
say also….your day is coming.  
Because we will never bow to you, and we will never stop fighting. We 
will never give up hope, and we will never lose our heart. We will never 
stop exposing you, and we will cast out every serpent. We are taking 
this country back, and we will forever, and always be free.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
